HIST 498R      : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Permission of the department required.
OAM 432        : BBA & SPECSTUBUS students allowed to enroll. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
DANC 226       : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) We recommend completing one semester of DANC 150 Movement Improvisation prior to taking this course. Contact Improvisation, an improvised duet form, explores partnering through many techniques including weight-sharing, counter balancing, momentum and stillness. We focus on bodily awareness and physical reflexes rather than consciously controlled movements. Movers shift direction, velocity, momentum and the quality of touch as they explore dancing together. In this course, dancers concentrate on how partnering with others enables them to feel sensations in their own body more acutely. All levels of movement experience--from none to some--can come experience the joy of improvising through contact! Please email Greg Catellier for a permission number and let him know if you've taken DANC 150: gcatell@emory.edu. Permission of the department required.
OAM 438        : OAM 330 or OAM 331 or SPECSTUBUS students or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
FILM 385W      : FILM 102 and (FILM 201 or FILM 202 or FILM 203 or FILM 204 or FILM_OX 204 or FILM 205) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites.
SPAN 202       : SPAN 201 or SPAN_OX 201 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Spanish 202 is a continuation of Spanish 201 and is designed to further develop students' Spanish skills. Students refine their grammar usage through continued review of basic structures and study of complex structures, and they expand their spoken Spanish skills through discussion and analysis of cultural topics, personal experiences, and literary and journalistic texts. Students are provided ample opportunity for focused listening through use of recorded texts (conversations, music, video) and for oral expression through general classroom and small-group discussions and oral reports. Readings in the course focus on both historical and current cultural and social issues in the Hispanic World, and writing is also developed as a communicative endeavor, with emphasis on the preparation of written compositions/reports based on the cultural components of the course. Prerequisite: successful completion of Spanish 201 at Emory, at Emory at Oxford, transfer credit for Span 201 from another institution, or permission of the Director of Placement.
OAM 464        : Program restrictions apply This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
SPAN 212       : CONTENT: This course focuses on developing both cultural understanding and linguistic skills. It explores cultural issues in the Hispanic world, such as diversity, gender roles and power structures through writing about and discussion of written texts and films. These texts also serve as the basis for practicing Spanish vocabulary and grammar in context, as well as honing listening, speaking, and particularly, reading and writing skills. By the end of the course, students should be able to use critical thinking skills in Spanish to interpret and discuss literature and film in Spanish, gain advanced proficiency in reading and writing the language, and gain knowledge of significant historical events. REQUIRED TEXT: Coutard, James, Evelyn, Katryn, Gaspar, Martin. Intrigas, 3rd ed. VHL, 2021. PARTICULARS: Movie screenings will be required outside of class. EVALUATION: Class participation, chapter quizzes, weekly homework, presentations, unit lesson essays. PREREQUISITE: SPAN 202 or Official Spanish Placement for SPAN 212. Take the online Spanish Placement Exam at https://spanport.emory.edu/undergraduate/placement/index.html SPAN 212 may be combined with a Spanish Foundational Course (300-318) or PORT 110 to satisfy both the HAL or Intercultural Communication requirement and major/minor requirements or electives. See https://spanport.emory.edu for details.
SPAN 217R      : Intended as a basis for further study, this edition of SPAN 217 helps intermediate and advanced Spanish speakers communicate effectively around illness, bodies, treatment, and public health. It includes grammar and vocabulary frequently used in interactions between healthcare professionals and patients. Its emphasis on oral and written narratives cultivates the skills of reading, listening, analysis, and reflection as well as speaking and writing. Cultural topics include the history of medicine, health narratives, and bioethics. Required textbook: Spanish for Health Care and Human Services: An Interdisciplinary Approach for Intermediate and Advanced Speakers by Alicia Muñoz Sánchez and Natalia Santamaría Laorden, print or digital edition, published by Cognella. PREREQUISITE: Spanish 212 or Official Spanish Placement for a Foundational Spanish Course. Take the Spanish Placement Exam at https://spanport.emory.edu/undergraduate/placement/placement-exam.html
FILM 407       : FILM 301 or FILM 301W or FILM 302 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Permission of the department required.
OAM 499R       : This section is reserved for students in the BBA program. While most people list happiness as one of their central life goals, people are surprisingly bad at knowing what will make them happy. In this course, we will explore what science can tell us about what actually makes people happy both personally and professionally. We will begin by examining how scientists define and measure happiness and some of the benefits of happiness for individuals and organizations. Next, we will examine the features of our minds that often make us less happy and how to combat them. We will then turn to what science can teach us about how to be happier, less stressed, and more fulfilled in our personal and professional lives. Students will have multiple opportunities to put these practices into action and will be encouraged to develop ways to build them into their current and future lives.
SPAN 300       : The primary objective of this Foundational Course is to provide students with the historical, political, geographic, and aesthetic background relevant to the study of Hispanic culture, that is, to develop a student's cultural literacy with regards to the Spanish-speaking world. This course also stresses the techniques of historical/textual criticism and their relationship to the cultural history of the Spanish- speaking world. The immediate pedagogical aim of Spanish 300 is to prepare students intellectually and linguistically to undertake advanced work in Spanish both at Emory and abroad. More generally, the course will help prepare students to engage more thoughtfully in acts of communication that cross cultural borders with and within the Spanish-speaking world. Spanish 300 satisfies the Emory College GER in "Intercultural Communication." PREREQUISITE: SPAN 212 or an Official Spanish Placement into our Foundational Course level (Span 300-318). Take the online Spanish Placement Exam at http://spanport.emory.edu/home/undergraduate/placement/index.html.
DANC 342       : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Contact Lori Teague (lteague@emory.edu) for a permission number. Preference given to declared dance majors and minors. Permission of the department required.
FILM 485       : FILM 301 or FILM 301W or FILM 302 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This course examines cinematic depictions of artificial intelligence as well as recent developments in the use of A.I. in film production and within the film industry. Students will create short A.I.-generated films as part of the course.
SPAN 302W      : CONTENT: Spanish 302W is one of the foundational courses for the major and minor in Spanish. This course has a transatlantic and interdisciplinary approach and introduces students to the analysis of cultural texts (novel, poetry, art) in Spain and Latin America from the eighteenth century to the present. PREREQUISITE: SPAN 212 or Official Placement for a Foundational Course (Span 300-318) from the Department of Spanish and Portuguese. Take the Spanish Placement Exam at http://spanport.emory.edu/home/undergraduate/placement/index.html
DANC 350       : This course requires DANC 250 AND DANC 150 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
FILM 499R      : Permission of the department required.
POLS 208       : QTM 100 or QTM_OX 100 or MATH_OX 117 or MATH_OX 117Q or QTM 220 or ECON 220 or ECON_OX 220 or POLS 310 or POLS 310W or ISOM 350 or BUS 350 or BUS_OX 350 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
SPAN 303       : (Same as LING 303 1) In this course (taught in Spanish), we will explore how diverse pronunciations are produced and organized by Spanish-speakers (including native/heritage and second-language speakers). As part of this, we will compare typical pronunciations of Spanish with those of English, and we will examine how different communities assign different social meanings and values to different pronunciations (for instance, why and in what circumstances do people value positively or negatively pronunciations such as "ello están contento" as opposed to "ellos están contentos"). This semester, we will include a component focusing on how different pronunciations and intonation can contribute to the performance of literary, theatrical and other spoken-language texts/events. TEXT: Tuten, D. N., Tejedo-Herrero, L. F., R. Rao, & H. R. Clarke. 2022. Pronunciaciones del español (Routledge). PARTICULARS: This course is designed for a wide variety of students, including those for whom Spanish is a primary/native or heritage language as well as for those who are learning Spanish as a second language. This is an introductory course in Hispanic Linguistics and therefore no background in Linguistics is required. Span/Ling 303 is a core course for the Spanish and Linguistics Joint Major and a Foundational Course for the Spanish Major and Minor. It counts as an elective or IC/HAL course for other Linguistics majors and minors. ***If SPAN 303 is at full capacity, please consider enrolling in LING 304, which will satisfy the same major requirements and the IC requirement.*** EVALUATION is based on attendance/participation, homework assignments, exams, and performance projects. PREREQUISITE: SPAN 212, permission of instructor or an Official Spanish Placement into our Foundational Course level (Span 300-318). For more information on Foundational Courses, please go to www.spanport.emory.edu. Take the online Spanish Placement Exam at http://spanport.emory.edu/home/undergraduate/placement/index.html.
DANC 360R      : This course requires DANC 350 AND DANC 250 AND DANC 150 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
FIN 201        : This section is reserved for students in the Emory College Liberal Arts and Sciences program.
DANC 421R      : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Please email mara.p.mandradjieff@emory.edu for a permission number. Permission of the department required.
SPAN 304       : (Same as LING 304 1) Dr. Deborah Tannen, a Distinguished University Professor of Linguistics at Georgetown, was once asked the following question: "Deborah, do you like your hair like that?" 1. Why don't we ask, "Your hair do like you like that?" 2. Does like have the same meaning in both uses? 3. Are the r's in "Deborah" and "hair" pronounced the same? 4. Who asked the question, and does it matter? Is the utterance really even a question? 5. How does our interpretation change if we know more about the tone of the utterance? The answers to these questions and others similar are what we'll explore in Span/ Ling 304, starting with a general history of the field of linguistics and what human communication entails before moving into detailed discussions of the production and organization of the sounds of Spanish (fonética y fonología); the formation, structure, and meanings of words (morfología); the structure and organization of sentences (sintaxis); analyses of meaning of words, sentences and conversations (semántica y pragmática); and examples of linguistic variation. TEXT: Hualde, José Ignacio, et. al. Introducción a la lingüística hispánica (2da edición). New York: Cambridge University Press, 2013. PARTICULARS: Because this is an introductory course to Hispanic linguistics, no previous study of Linguistics is required, but the course is taught in Spanish. Span/ Ling 304 is a core course of the Spanish & Linguistics Joint Major and a foundational course for the Spanish Major and Minor and the Major in Spanish and Portuguese. ***If SPAN 304 is at full capacity, please consider enrolling in LING 304, which will satisfy the same major requirements and the IC requirement.*** EVALUATION is based on active class participation, homework assignments, exams (two midterms and a final) and a project/ presentation due at the end of the semester. PREREQUISITE: SPAN 212, permission of instructor, or an Official Spanish Placement into our Foundational Course level (Span 300-318). For more information on Foundational Courses, please go to www.spanport.emory.edu. Take the online Spanish Placement Exam at http://spanport.emory.edu/home/undergraduate/placement/index.html
MUS 122        : MUS 121 as prerequisite or equivalent transfer credit. (Prerequisite: MUS 121)
DANC 424R      : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Please email Tara Myers for a permission number: tshepa2@emory.edu. Permission of the department required.
SPAN 318       : This 300-level course is designed to equip advanced Spanish learners with the practical language skills and cultural understanding necessary to thrive in the global business environment and workplace. Moving beyond traditional textbook exercises, this course centers on experiential and project-based and practicum-based learning. Students will participate in mock simulations, conduct in-depth research on the economies and business practices of Spanish-speaking countries, and also develop their own professional portfolios relevant to their own fields. Through a comprehensive exploration of business practices, cultures, and the global economy, students will gain a robust foundation in the vocabulary and communication skills necessary for success in international business and cultural economics. This hands-on approach will provide tangible outcomes, preparing students for real-world professional scenarios. Course topics: International Markets, Real Estate, Business Management, Human Resources, International Cultural Economics & More. Prerequisite: SPAN 212 or an Official Spanish Placement into our Foundational Course level. Take the online Spanish Placement Exam at http://spanport.emory.edu/home/undergraduate/placement/index.html.
SPAN 330       : (Same as THEA 363 1) The objective of this course is the development of linguistic and cultural understanding in the context of theatrical performance. The course is both critical and experiential. Through close readings of texts, script analysis, memorization, development of character, writing assignments, and theatrical performance, students will develop a deeper understanding of Spanish language and Hispanic cultures through the perspectives of both disciplines, Hispanism and Theater Studies. This critical/interpretive dimension will be enriched at all stages of the course by the experiential dimension: the physical and vocal embodiment/performance of the target language and texts. Course taught in Spanish. Texts: readings will be made available on Canvas. Particulars: Class exercises will involve physical and vocal warm-ups and improvisation; assignments, including writing essays and reading plays, will include individual activities as well as activities requiring outside class preparation with partners. Prerequisite: SPAN 212 Interested students must contact Prof. Elva Gonzalez at egonza3@emory.edu or Prof. Mary Lynn Owen at mowen3@emory.edu. Permission of the department required.
DANC 454W      : (Same as WGS 454W 1) (This course is intended for junior and senior level students.)
DANC 491R      : This repertory course will be an opportunity for students to dive into the choreographic process, exploring tools for researching and making dances. Drawing from methods derived from post-modern dance and improvisation, and utilizing movement material borrowed from butoh, contemporary dance, and the individual movement lineages of participants, we as a class will create a repertory piece that will be performed at the Emory Dance Concert in April. (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Email Anne Walker, awalker@emory.edu, for a permission number. Students must have completed at least one semester of a level II dance technique class to enroll in this course. Permission of the department required.
SPAN 385       : This course listens to stories of pregnancy, birth, and abortion from contemporary Latin America. How do women negotiate cultural norms, legal structures, poverty, discrimination, and other barriers to make decisions for their lives, families, and health? How are these struggles depicted in novels, documentary films, journalism, activist publications, and other forms? Prerequisites: a Foundational Spanish Course or SPAN 217 (Spanish for Health Care).
FIN 320        : BBA or SPECSTUBUS students This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
SPAN 413W      : (Same as LING 413W 1) This course provides a descriptive and critical overview of the linguistic practices of different Spanish-speaking communities in the United States, as well as a methodology for the study of these practices. Students will learn about the linguistics characteristics of the different Spanish varieties spoken by these communities, including phonetic, morphological, syntactic and lexical aspects. Special attention is given to the relationship between language and society, particularly on topics such as ethnic and cultural identity, multilingualism and language policy. The course also presents a theoretical and practical approach to the ethnographic research method. Students will read and analyze studies carried out by different scholars and will design their own research project on the topic of their preference. Special attention is given to ethical principles, for this reason students will need to complete the web-based Collaborative IRB Training Initiative (CITI) Program in the Protection of Human Subjects in Research. Background on general Linguistics is recommended, such as the one provided in Span/Ling 303, Span/Ling 304 or Ling 201.This course meets the sociocultural requirement of the Linguistics Major and can be used as one of the required 400-level courses for the Joint Major in Spanish & Linguistics or for the Major/Minor in Spanish. TEXTS: - El español de los Estados Unidos. Escobar, Anna María and Kim Potowski. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. - Selection of articles available in Canvas. EVALUATION: Evaluation will be based in class participation, weekly assignments, one exam, one research project and five written practices. PRE-REQUISITES: One foundational course, preferably SPAN/LING 303 or SPAN/LING 304.
SPAN 421W      : (Same as LACS 421W 1) Once the world's leading producer of Spanish-language motion pictures and a competing alternative to Hollywood in Latin America, the Mexican film industry has undergone major transformations in distribution and exhibition networks, as well as in the regimes of film production and consumption, since the mid-1980s. This course will examine the evolving perceptions of the social function of film and shifting spectatorship practices from the Mexican Golden Age of Cinema (1930-1950) to the screen-viewing practices of our streaming age. PREREQUISITES: At least one Foundational Course (SPAN 300-318W)
FIN 321        : FIN 201 or [(ECON 101 or ECON_OX 101) and (ECON 112 or ECON_OX 112)] or SPECSTUBUS studentsor equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
HLTH 285       : In Critical Evaluation of Epi, we will explore peer-reviewed epidemiological studies. Through discussions, we will have the opportunity to evaluate the strengths and limitations of the studies. We will gain insights into the journey from results to real-world impact, learning how research shapes public health knowledge and practice, while honing the critical skill of critical thinking. (Prerequisite: HLTH 207) Special Note: HLTH 285 courses count differently within the majors/minors; they are not all equivalent. Please pay close attention to the exact course title and categories that specific title counts in, which you can find on our requirements sheets and course summary sheets. If you have any questions, please reach out to CSHH administration.
SPAN 424       : Description: With the return to democracy in 1975, Spaniards gained the freedom to debate human rights questions in the press, television, literature, film, and the public sphere of digital social media. How is human rights discourse represented in Spanish culture? Conversely, how can this cultural production impact human rights policy? In exploring Spain's standing within the framework of European and international human rights theory and law, this course focuses on issues in the human rights arena that have gained prominence in contemporary Spanish society, including immigration and race; gender and sexuality; domestic and global terrorism. In their final projects students may explore these topics or pursue additional avenues of interest (for instance, language rights; children's rights; environmental rights, etc.). The course will feature guest speakers and a visit to Atlanta's National Center for Civil and Human Rights. Texts: Will include examples of numerous genres, including journalism, literature (novels, short stories, poetry, memoirs), film, popular music, and social media. Background readings will provide an overview of the polemics surrounding humanitarian ethics in the age of globalization. Evaluation: Active participation in class discussions; short written assignments; film review; final research project. Prerequisites: At least one foundational course for the Spanish major or minor (SPAN 300-318); or one 400-level Spanish course. There may be exceptions to this. Students without these prerequisites should consult with the instructor.
SPAN 485       : (Same as LACS 490R 1) This course explores the intersection of patriarchy, racism, and violence in 21st-century Latin American film. Students will examine how various family formats are portrayed on film, and to what extent they construe, challenge, and/or otherwise reproduce influential concepts (such as care, work, motherhood, childhood, decency, masculinity, or promiscuity) across gender, racial, and/or class-based lines. In examining these issues, we will look at how People of Color, Women, Children, and members of the LGBTQ+ collective bear the brunt of abuse and generalized violence brought against them due to the sheer fact that they dare to exist. We will also explore the concept of patriarchy paying attention to the many traits that turn masculinity in particular, and cisheteronormativity in general, (as well as subtle forms of white supremacy-ism) into vigilance vectors bent on building "the normal". In analyzing narrative depictions that address the aforementioned forms of inequality, the class will discuss to what extent State-sponsored forms of violence manufacture hegemony, neutralizing and destroying any detectable "deviance" from a desideratum for docile and malleable citizens that remains under constant (de)construction. EVALUATION: Participation in class, written critical responses, an oral presentation, and a final research essay. PREREQUISITE: At least one foundational course (SPAN 300-318W) or permission from the instructor.
FIN 322        : FIN 220 or FIN 320 or SPECSTUBUS students or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
MUS 222        : This course requires MUS 221 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. (Pre-Requisite MUS 221)
SPAN 485W      : (Same as LACS 490RW 1) In this class we ask: what exactly are "borders," "borderlands," and "border spaces"? How do they function? How can we understand the Mexico-U.S. frontera/border within both historical and contemporary contexts? How does that border inflect other "border spaces" far away from its geography, including spaces in Atlanta? The course looks at how the stories of these borders are shaped and then re-told, in written and visual texts. The course is taught primarily in Spanish while also integrating the multi-lingual nature of border stories. We will partner with the Latin American Association, whose building on Buford Highway can be described as a border space, and we will engage with a visiting artist, Yehimi Cambrón. You will complete a collaborative project that supports the Latin American Association's work and provides a framework for you to actively reflect on the integration of the humanistic inquiry (like this course) in your own future work. PREREQUISITES: At least one Foundational Course (SPAN 300 - 318W), or one 400-level Spanish course, or permission from the instructor.
HLTH 306       : ECON 220 or ECON_OX 220 or HLTH 207 or MATH_OX 117Q or QTM 100 or QTM_OX 100 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This course introduces students to key concepts in health research. It uses didactic and applied training to develop competency in research methods, both quantitative and qualitative. The course introduces the basic steps, methods and strategies of the research process; problem identification, hypothesis development, literature review, research design and methodology, data management, data analysis, and scientific communication. Its aim is to help students design and develop a thoughtful, persuasive, and potentially fundable scientific research proposal that addresses a health concern. Students begin with a broad health topic that they would like to investigate and learn how to narrow it down into a specific and feasible research question; then they learn how to design a methodology to address the question. In addition to comprehending and developing the elements of a research project, students also learn the principles of ethical conduct of research, essentials of scientific writing, as well as presentation skills. Students also learn how to conduct a literature review, how to evaluate the literature, and how to use a reference management software. (Prerequisites can be any one of the following: HLTH 207, OR QTM100, OR MATH_OX 117Q, OR ECON 220 - If any issues enrolling with one of these prerequisites, please contact Savvy.Mcleod@emory.edu)
FIN 382        : This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
HLTH 321       : HLTH 220 or HLTH 221 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. An individual's nutrient and energy requirements change over the life span. This course will explore the nutritional foundations of growth, development, and normal functioning in each stage of the life span, from pre-pregnancy to older age. We will examine the physiological and developmental basis for changing nutrient requirements over each stage and consider evidence-based age- and life stage-specific dietary recommendations to prevent nutrient deficiencies, promote health, and prevent disease. Sociological influences across the lifespan will also be considered. (Prerequisite: HLTH 220)
BIOL 247       : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. (Same as ENVS 247 1) (This course provides a broad overview of ecology, ranging from evolutionary ecology to ecosystems ecology. The emphasis of the course is on data interpretation and experimental design in the context of the ecological concepts we are discussing. Students will work in small groups on applying basic ecological principles to data interpretation and experimental design. This course will fulfill the Column C requirement (or elective credit) for the Biology major. There will be three exams plus a cumulative final exam. Students will also be evaluated on class discussions. A separate, optional, 3 credit hour laboratory (Biology 247LW/ENVS 247LW) is associated with this course (in fall semester). (The lab is not required)
MATH 315       : (MATH 221 or MATH_OX 221 or MATH 275 or MATH 321) and (CS 170 or CS_OX 170 or MATH 170) or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
ECON 212       : (ECON 101 or ECON_OX 101 or FIN 201) and (ECON 112 or ECON_OX 112) and (MATH 111 or MATH_OX 111 or MATH 116) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites.
BIOL 250       : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. This course covers advanced topics on the structure and function of cells at the molecular level. Topics include the relationship between structure and function, integration of cellular functions, compartmentalization of cellular functions, nuclear and cytoplasmic interactions, and intracellular and intercellular communications. This course fulfills the Column A requirement (or elective credit) for the biology major.
MATH 321       : MATH 250 or MATH_OX 250 or MATH_OX 250Q or MATH 276 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
JPN 102        : JPN 101 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ECON 215       : ECON 101 or ECON_OX 101 or FIN 201 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. This class is being co-taught by Jeffrey Eisentein. You can view their LinkedIn profile here: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jeff-e-a793294/
MATH 330       : (MATH 221 or MATH_OX 221 or MATH 275 or MATH 321) and (MATH 250 or MATH_OX 250 or MATH 276) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
JPN 202        : JPN 201 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
BIOL 264       : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. (Students must also register for a BIOL 264-1 Discussion Section. This course will provide a fundamental understanding of human genetics and builds on the concepts of genetics developed in Biology 142. Topics include modern analysis of the human genome, epigenetics, and cancer. This course is designed to provide a deep understanding of modern genetics as well as to foster critical thinking and analytical skills through problem solving and analysis of the primary scientific literature. The main focus of the course will be on molecular genetics, but we will also cover fundamental principles of classical genetics and population genetics. Course topics will be explored with special emphasis on how modern genetic research is changing the face of both medicine and agriculture. There will be three in-class exams and a final project. Discussion section grades will be based on student participation. This course fulfills the Column A (or elective) requirement for the Biology major.) Prerequisites: Biology 142 + 142L.
MATH 344       : (MATH 211 or PHYS 211 or MATH_OX 211 or MATH 276) and (MATH 221 or MATH_OX 221 or MATH 321) and (MATH 250 or MATH_OX 250 or MATH 276) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
PHYS 117       : PHYS 115 or PHYS 116 or ASTR_OX 116 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
BIOL 285       : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. Full Title: Phage Genomics + Intro to Bioinformatics LAB. Permission of instructor is required. Students currently enrolled in BIOL 386W (Phage Discovery LAB) in Fall 2025 have priority for this course and should contact Tonya Woolcock at tdavis6@emory.edu to request a permission number. This course is based on the SEA-PHAGES curriculum. Prior participation in the Phage Discovery wet lab is encouraged but not required. Students who have taken both semesters of the course will have the option to present their results at the SEA-PHAGES annual student symposium. In the SEA-PHAGES bioinformatics semester (GENOMES), students will learn basic principles of genomics and bioinformatics through exploration of bacteriophage genomes. Our first goal as a class (first half of the semester) is to produce the highest possible quality bacteriophage genome annotation for a phage using DNA MASTER, then contribute the final annotated genome sequence to a global database. The second half of the semester will introduce the basics of coding and sequence analysis in Python. Prerequisites: Biology 142 + 142L. Permission of the department required.
JPN 302        : JPN 301 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
MATH 346       : (MATH 221 or MATH_OX 221 or MATH 275 or MATH 321) and (CS 170 or CS_OX 170 or MATH 170) or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. CS and Math 170 waived. Please contact Math Registration for permission code (math-registration@listserv.cc.emory.edu).
ECON 220       : (ECON 101 or ECON_OX 101 or FIN 201) and (MATH 111 or MATH_OX 111 or MATH 112 or MATH_OX 112 or MATH 112Z or MATH_OX 112Z or MATH 116) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
JPN 351        : JPN 202 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ECON 231       : ECON 101 or ECON_OX 101 or FIN 201 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
BIOL 301       : [(BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or (BIOL_OX 142)] and (CHEM 203 or CHEM 203Z or CHEM_OX 203 or CHEM 221 or CHEM_OX 221 or CHEM 221Z) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. The cell is an amazing network of self-organizing machinery that drives life in all its forms. This course begins by defining the molecular wheels and cogs of the cell's machines and how their capabilities are defined by their chemistries. The chemistries of each component are then explored to understand how they contribute to the operation and control of the cellular machinery. We will further explore how all of the cellular components are governed, by kinetic and non-kinetic controls, to produce a coherent and responsive metabolism that efficiently creates and utilizes the energy stored in chemical compounds, such as glucose and fats. Human metabolic disorders such as diabetes will provide models of how metabolism is controlled at the systematic level in complex organisms using biochemical signaling pathways to coordinate metabolic pathways in different tissues. This course will fulfill elective credit for the Biology major and should provide students with a firm foundation in Biochemistry.
MATH 351       : (MATH 211 or MATH_OX 211 or MATH 276) and (MATH 212 or MATH_OX 212) and (MATH 221 or MATH_OX 221 or MATH 275 or MATH 321) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
JPN 402        : JPN 401 or JPN 401W or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
MATH 362       : This course requires MATH 361 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
BIOL 336       : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. This course is a study of human physiology emphasizing homeostatic mechanisms of integrated body functions. Topics covered in this class include cellular communication, endocrinology, neurophysiology, muscle physiology, circulation, respiration, and renal physiology. Prerequisites: Biology 142 and 142L. This course may be taken as elective credit for the Biology major.
ECON 312       : (ECON 101 or ECON_OX 101 or FIN 201) and (ECON 112 or ECON_OX 112) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ECON 315       : This course requires ECON _OX 100 or ECON 101 or ECON_OX 101 or FIN 201 AND ECON 112 or ECON_OX112 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
MATH 412       : This course requires MATH 411 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
BIOL 351       : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. Students must also enroll in a BIOL 351 Discussion Section. The basic principles of immunology, the causes of pathogenesis during the course of infection with microparasites, and the limitations to the understanding of infectious diseases (such as HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria) caused by viruses, bacteria, and unicellular eukaryotes. This course will fulfill elective credit for the Biology major. Prerequisites: Biology 142 + 142L.
BIOL 352       : [(BIOL 142 or BIOL_OX 142) and BIOL 264] or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Epigenetics is the study of heritable characteristics not caused by changes in DNA sequence, but rather induced by non-genetic factors that alter gene expression and are dependent on time and location. The course explores epigenetics and its relation to normal development and disease. This course may be taken as elective credit for the Biology major. Prerequisites: Biology 142, 142L, and 264.
MATH 422       : This course requires MATH 421 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
PHYS 142       : This course requires PHYS 141 OR PHYS_OX 141 OR PHYS 151 OR PHYS_OX 151 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
BIOL 360       : [(BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142] and (CHEM 142 or CHEM_OX 142 or CHEM 202 or CHEM_OX 202 or CHEM 202Z) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as NBB 301 1)
MATH 425       : (MATH 211 or MATH_OX 211 or MATH 276) and (ECON 201 or ECON_OX 201) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as ECON 425 1) (Students, please copy and paste this link in your browser to complete the enrollment request form: https://forms.office.com/r/wGAcyuzHsG ) (Permission codes will be sent out during Add/Drop/Swap. For enrollment in ECON 425, please contact Erica Bowersox (erica.blake.bowersox@emory.edu). For enrollment in Math 425, please contact Taylr Tuggle (tatuggl@emory.edu) in Math.) Permission of the department required.
BIOL 360L      : [(BIOL 142 and BIOl 142L) or BIOL_OX142] and (BIOL 360 or NBB 301) or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. (Same as NBB 301L 1) (Topic: Neural Data Simulation & Analysis Lab). Students who were on the BIOL 360L/NBB 301 wait list in Fall 2025 AND Spring 2026 graduating senior Biology majors who need to fulfill their upper-level lab requirement have priority for this class. Contact Barbara Shannon at barbara.shannon@emory.edu for permission. Through this course, you will learn basic computational and programming skills and apply them to the simulation and analysis of neural data. Course instructors will provide introductory lessons on basic coding in Python, which will be used throughout the course through collaborative, group-based lab tutorials. The focus of this course will be to use these in-lab tutorials to understand how neuroscience data is structured, analyzed, simulated, and interpreted. The course will be divided into 2 portions: (1) coding, running, and interpreting simulations of neural activity, and (2) understanding the analysis of neural data. The course consists of lectures, group lab tutorials, and individual homework assignments for each module. This course originates in the Biology Department, and it will count as an elective and upper-level laboratory credit for the Biology major. (This course does NOT COUNT as elective credit for the NBB major; the catalog description is incorrect.) Prerequisites: Biology 142/142L and Chemistry 202; pre- or co-requisite: Biology 360/NBB 301). Permission of the department required.
ECON 320       : (ECON 101 or ECON_OX 101 or BUS 201) and (ECON 112 or ECON_OX 112) and (ECON 220 or ECON_OX 220 or MATH 207 or MATH_OX 207 or MATH 361 or MATH 362) or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
ECON 350       : ECON 101 or ECON_OX 101 or FIN 201 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
BIOL 364       : BIOL 264 or BIOL_OX 264 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This course will examine the concepts and experimental methods used to understand genomes. The questions explored will include: How are genomes structured? How do they function inside cells? How do they vary between individuals? And how does this variation contribute to differences in disease risk?". This course may be taken as elective credit for the Biology major. Prerequisites: Biology 142, 142L, and 264. Students must also enroll in the discussion section.
PHYS 152       : (PHYS 141 or PHYS_OX 141 or PHYS 151 or PHYS_OX 151) and (MATH 112 or MATH_OX 112 or MATH 116 or MATH 210) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
PSYC 333       : PSYC 110 or PSYC_OX 110 or PSYC 111 or PSYC_OX 111 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Prior completion of PSYC 110 or PSYC 111 or AP/IB credit in psychology.
FREN 102       : FREN 102 Elementary French II (JF Lopez Cochachi / Mondays and Wednesdays 10:00AM-11:15AM; F 10:00-10:50AM online synchronous) ***NOTE: This course has "tiered enrollment" (certain number of seats available for each class). The class will open to all at the beginning of the drop/add period.*** Content: This course is designed to help students build proficiency in French reading, writing, speaking and listening in the context of cultural exploration of the Francophone world. The course is conducted entirely in French. Instruction proceeds from guided to more creative and independent work with emphasis on speaking, writing, communication and active participation. Students will complete at-home practice with the required online textbook and platform: Atelier-MindTap. Please note: FREN 102 is open to students who have had some French (FREN 101 or up to two years in high school). Language placement results must be provided to the instructor. Waitlists will open for the course during the add/drop period at the beginning of the semester.
PSYC 352       : QTM 100 or QTM_OX 100 or ECON 220 or ECON_OX 220 or ISOM 350 or POLS 310 or POLS 310W or MATH_OX 117 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (In this course we will examine the underlying causes of human behavior and traits, focusing particularly on the use of quantitative genetic methods (i.e, twin and adoption studies) to disentangle genetic and environmental influences. We also will review molecular genetic methods for finding specific genes that underlie behavior. We will begin by reviewing the historical backdrop to behavior genetics, including a focus on Charles Darwin, Francis Galton, and Gregor Mendel. We will proceed to examine the use of twin and adoption studies to disentangle genetic and environmental influences, and the advantages of these methods over family studies. We will then review various molecular genetic methods for finding specific genes. We will end by exploring the results of quantitative and molecular genetic studies of various forms of psychopathology, personality, and behavior. Textbook: Behavioral Genetics / Edition 7; Publication Date:10/02/2016; Publisher: Worth by Valerie S. Knopik, Jenae M. Neiderhiser, John C. DeFries, Robert Plomin, Charles Darwin. On the Origin of Species; either hard copy or pdf posted to Canvas.)
FREN 201       : FREN 201 Intermediate French I (Prof. Vincent Bornert / TTh 10:00-11:15am; F 10:00-10:50am online synchronous). Content: The course seeks to expand upon previous French courses by introducing students to new vocabulary, new grammar structures, and more challenging cultural material that will provide a better sense of the diversity of the Francophone world. In the context of the manual « Imaginez, 5th edition », and its fully integrated accompanying literary and cultural texts, audio recordings and songs, videos and short films, students get an in-depth review of the basic patterns and structures of French. During this journey to different parts of the French-speaking world, students have the opportunity to reactivate their previous knowledge of the language and to expand upon that base so that they can communicate with confidence. Required Textbooks, Articles, and Resources: Champeny, Séverine, "IMAGINEZ: le français sans frontières, 5th Edition". Vista Higher Learning, 2020. ISBN: 978-1-54330-546-3. Students will need the supersite access code. May be purchased via the VHL website or Emory bookstore. Additional Resources: 'IMAGINEZ' Supersite, vhlcentral.com, and Student Activities Manual Course Requisites FREN 102 as prerequisite, or by placement exam.)
NBB 495BW      : Wednesday only Permission of the department required.
ARTHIST 190    : Maps: Finding Our Place in the World (Freshmen Seminar - Limited to First Year Students Only) In this first-year seminar, we will investigate maps and mapmaking in order to think about what maps are, how they are made, and how they operate in different times and places. We will study histories of cartography as well as reflect on the role of art and science in cartographic practice. We will also consider how maps, other images, and texts convey understandings about and claims to spaces and places. We will look closely at, read about, discuss, and write about maps, other images, and texts linked to different parts of the world. Through class discussions and activities, we will examine how maps can reflect, produce, and reinforce unequal power relations yet also envision better futures. The seminar requires curiosity, a willingness to be creative, an eagerness to exchange and discuss informed ideas with respect, and careful attention to assignments. The seminar is not a lecture course, and it requires no previous study of art history, history, or geography.
PSYC 424       : Open to Seniors and juniors ONLY. Prior completion of PSYC 110, 111, or AP/IB credit in psychology, QTM 100 and PSYC 200W. Permission of the instructor is required. For permission, please contact Dr. Gregory Berns and gberns@emory.edu. Permission of the department required.
FREN 203       : FREN 203 Intermediate French II (Prof. Vincent Bornert / MW 1:00-2:15PM; F 1:00-1:50PM online synchronous). Content: In French 203, students develop interpretive strategies and review and practice grammatical forms in the context of authentic literary and cultural texts. Class activities are designed to improve students' abilities in the communicative and presentational modes. There will be frequent written reactions to authentic materials. Viewing of French films will provide the opportunity for extended oral analysis and discussion. French 203 counts towards the minor in French but not the major. Assessment: Grading will be based on written unit tests, compositions, oral presentations, class participation. Required Textbooks, Articles, and Resources: Required: Dãfi Francophone 2: 6 month My French H (ISBN 9788419072733); Optional: Dãfi Francophone 2: Student Bundle 12 month (ISBN 9788419072764. Course Requisites FREN 201 as prerequisite, or by placement exam.
PSYC 430       : Prior completion of QTM 100 and PSYC 200W. For permission, please e-mail the instructor. Permission of the department required.
ARTHIST 203    : Architectural Design Studio: Visionary Architecture Some of the most extraordinary designs in architecture are not made to be built. Because they can only exist in drawings, they are often referred to as "paper architecture." But these unbuildable designs perform important roles that built ones cannot. Because they see beyond the limits of their time and circumstances, they are also known as ¿visionary architecture¿. They are free experiments, speculations, statements, illustrations, and critiques in the form of imaginary spaces. They transform design tools into unique means of analysis, thought, and representation. They explore different cultural, historical, socio-political, aesthetic, and critical dimensions of the built environment. They create unreal worlds that defy the limits of what ours can become. In this advanced studio, we will explore centuries of such incredible designs, and you will have the opportunity to create a visionary architecture of your own. For permission contact instructor: andre.patrao@emory.edu Architectural Studies minor: elective or makers Art History major/minor: makers & materials course Permission of the department required.
WGS 454W       : (Same as DANC 454W 1) (This course is intended for junior and senior level students.)
FREN 310W      : FREN 310W The Art of Writing / L'art de l'écriture (L. Ami Ali / TTh 1:00-2:15PM in person). Content: In this participatory and interactive writing course, we will explore the discursive approaches and practices that define different writing genres (description, narration, essay, and textual analysis). You will learn how to integrate these approaches into your own writing. Emphasis will be placed on writing as a process, and students will turn in multiple versions and iterations of their work. In each module, we will also explore the parallels and discrepancies between writing and other forms of art and communication. Major assignments and grades: Drafts [Ateliers] 10%; Compositions 50%; Homework/ Preparation 20%; Creative/Interactive Projects 10%; Participation 10%. Required Textbooks, Articles, and Resources 1. Siskin et al. Tâches d'encre (5th Edition). ISBN: 9780357658901; 2. Bescherelle (recommended / FRENCH Edition). Course Requisites: FREN 203 or by placement exam.
PSYC 471R      : (Complete Topic: Conceptual Foundations of Functional Neuroimaging) (Juniors and seniors only.) ( Prior completion of PSYC 110, OR 111, OR AP credit in psychology AND PSYC 200W.)
ENGRD 219      : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Gateway: Portfolio This course serves as an introduction to the Rhetoric, Writing, and Information Design minor, in which you will begin to create the writing portfolio that will be developed further in more advanced courses across the minor. Building your skillset to maintain a hosted digital space of your own for this WordPress site, we will theorize and reflect on your work in terms of key concepts relevant to your future rhetorical studies. Permission of the department required.
PHIL 200W      : One PHIL course or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This course is restricted to Philosophy majors. Permission of the department required.
FREN 314       : FREN 310 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
CHEM 202       : CHEM 141 or CHEM_OX 141 or CHEM 150 or CHEM_OX 150 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
WGS 495BW      : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment)
PHIL 220W      : One PHIL course or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This course is restricted to PPL majors. Permission of the department required.
ENGRD 221RW    : This is an English Language Learner (ELL) course. Contact Jane O'Connor (jcoconn@emory.edu) for permission to enroll. Language, Land, & Place This course offers an introduction to various nonfiction genres (including flash nonfiction, photo-essay, and personal essay) and approaches to writing that destabilize standard academic English (including Indigenous language reclamation, multilingualism, and translingualism). We will read and discuss a range of scholarship in Black, Indigenous, Asian/American, and Latinx/Latine rhetoric, writing, and literacy; ground ourselves in our shared contexts of Atlanta and the larger Southeast; and develop shared practices of land- and place-based writing. Permission of the department required.
IDS 205W       : We live in an era where data is one of the most valuable currencies. It shapes how companies see us, what they predict we'll buy, and even what keeps us scrolling. Big Data is at the core of many digital experiences, especially through recommendation systems, whether it's Netflix suggesting your next binge, Amazon curating your shopping list, or TikTok tailoring your For You page. But while these algorithms make life convenient, they also raise major ethical concerns around privacy, bias, and digital autonomy. This course will explore both the technical foundations of algorithms and their broader social implications. We'll break down how these systems work while also looking at how business incentives shape what gets recommended. While technical expertise isn't required, students who want to dive deeper into the computational or mathematical aspects can do so through projects and assignments.
FREN 351       : FREN 310 or FREN_OX 310 and FREN 314 or FREN_OX 314 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. FREN 351: Media and Genres: Autofiction / Vivre l'autofiction (Prof. Giguere / Mondays/Wednesdays 11:30am-12:45pm). Content: While personal narratives that blend fact and fiction existed well before the term autofiction was coined in 1977, in this course we will consider the reasons why this genre has become ubiquitous in French and Francophone cultural and literary spheres of the 20th and 21st centuries. We will focus on the genre's flexibility and capacity to 1) communicate individual experiences as they relate to powerful, painful, and liberating social, political, and historical events and 2) communicate the complexity of these experiences not just through writing but across different media including graphic novels, photography, film, music, interviews, and social media. Primary Works; Perec, W ou le souvenir denfance Ernaux, Lévénement Faye, Petit pays Varda, Les plages dAgnès Supplementary texts may include excerpts/ short works by Barthes, Duras, Doubrovsky, Calle, Guibert, Satrapi, Darrieussecq (among others). Course Expectations and Assignments: - Active participation - Readings and collaborative [student and instructor generated] study guides for most sessions - One presentation - 2 short papers with drafts (4-5 pages) - 3 in-class responses (1-2 pages) - Final collaborative, multi-media class project
CHEM 202L      : CHEM 141 or CHEM_OX 141 or CHEM 150L or CHEM_OX 150L as a prerequisite and CHEM 202 or CHEM_OX 202 as a corequisite. In this course, students will learn, in a hands-on setting, how to make new substances, as well as how to isolate, identify, and quantify them. The development of a meaningful understanding of intermolecular forces and how these determine the physical properties of a material is a major theme of these studies.
PHIL 300       : This course is restricted to PPL majors. Permission of the department required.
ENGRD 224R     : This is an English Language Learner (ELL) course. Contact Jane O'Connor (jcoconn@emory.edu) for permission to enroll. This three-credit hour class is to be repeated over four semesters for the two-year duration that you attend Emory. The class is designed specifically to support you in developing your academic and informal/social English language proficiency through authentic materials. You will develop and practice your English language skills by reading, listening to, and interpreting diverse texts, engaging in discussions and performing various other activities both inside and outside of the classroom. In addition, it will introduce you to life in America and American culture, history, and traditions through expert guest speakers. Each of you will also be paired with a writing center tutor and conversation partner for extra practice outside of the classroom. Permission of the department required.
PSYC 495BW     : Pre-requisite: PSYC 495A. Permission is required for enrollment. Permission of the department required.
CHEM 203       : CHEM 202 or CHEM_OX 202 or CHEM 202Z or CHEM 221 or CHEM_OX 221 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This course is NOT intended for students who took Chem 202Z in fall 2024; those students should take Chem 203Z.
FREN 391R      : FREN 310 or FREN_OX 310 and FREN 314 or FREN_OX 314 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as AFS 389 5) FREN 391R: Interdisciplinary Arts as Healing Practice (Prof. Montlouis-Gabriel / Tuesdays/Thursdays 10:00-11:15AM). Content: As Fabienne Kanor reflects in an interview: "J'ai mal à mon histoire et la réécrire est le seul moyen que j'ai trouvé pour guérir un peu" ("My history hurts me, and rewriting it is the only way I have found to heal a little"). This course takes up Kanor's insight as its guiding principle, exploring how artistic creation becomes a pathway to healing from historical trauma. How do artists transform pain into power? How can creativity help us heal from historical trauma and imagine new possibilities? This course invites you to explore how predominantly Black women artists and artists featuring Black women characters across the francophone world (from Senegal to Martinique, France to Vietnam, Cameroon to Reunion Island) use film, literature, poetry, performance, and visual arts as tools for healing and resistance. Through hands-on creative projects and rigorous literary and cultural analysis, you'll develop your own practice while learning concepts like "cartographies of memory" and "aquatic metaphors" as ways to understand healing journeys across the diasporas. You'll collaborate with visiting artist TIE on her project "Odyssey in Black Utero," exploring how art creates healing pathways between past and future. Your final project? Create your own "map to elsewhere" a creative work that visualizes connections between historical memory and imagined futures. No prior art experience necessary: just curiosity and openness to creative exploration. Texts may include: Fabienne Kanor, Humus (excerpts) Léonora Miano, La saison de lOmbre Nadia Chonville, Mon coeur bat vite Maryse Condé, Moi, Tituba sorcière de Salem (excerpts) Alice Diop, Saint-Omer (film) Mati Diop, Atlantics (film) Alain Gomis, Félicité (film) Jean-Pierre Bekolo, Les Saignantes (film) Eva Doumbia, Autophagies (Theater) TIE, Odyssey in Black Utero (collaborative project)
PSYC 498R      : Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Psychology majors only. Credit is variable, 1.00 - 12.00 (For 3.00 hrs/week = 1.00 credit). Students must have consent of faculty member (inside or outside of the department) and agreement on a research paper, expectations and responsibilities. Students are required to complete a PSYC 498R/499R Contract with a faculty member. Contract is available through Lorenza Houser (lhouser@emory.edu). Please e-mail Ms. Houser to obtain a copy of the contract to complete and sign along with your faculty advisor. Completed and signed contract must be returned to Ms. Houser, lhouser@emory.edu, on or before the end of a/d/s for enrollment. Permission of the department required.
CHEM 203Z      : CHEM 202Z or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This course is only intended for students who completed CHEM 202Z/202ZL in the fall. Please do not select this course if you do not meet these criteria.
FREN 488W      : FREN 310, FREN 314 and two 300 level FREN courses, or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. FREN 488. Hauntings: Literature, Psychoanalysis, Film Prof. Claire Nouvet / Mondays and Wednesdays, 1:00-2:15PM. Content: With the study of hysteria, Freud discovered the process of repression and elaborated the concept of the unconscious. The unconscious, however, does not rest quietly. It returns to haunt the present through various disruptions that conscious thought does not know how to explain to itself: slips of the tongue, dreams, phobias, anxieties, delusions. If we learn from psychoanalysis that a past that has been repressed can return to disrupt the present, literature, for its part, has its own way of staging these uncanny returns. What comes back under the figures of the ghosts, vampires, and witches that haunt the literary stage? How do traumatic histories haunt the next generations? And what happens to those who incarnate past histories that the present prefers to forget? These are some of the questions that we will address at the juncture of literature, psychoanalysis and film. Special attention will be given to the way psychoanalysis addresses the issue of trauma not only at the individual level but also at the collective level: transgenerational transmission of historical traumas. Texts may include: Freud: Introductory Lectures [selections] Studies in Hysteria [selections] Delusion and Dream in Wilhelm Jensen's Gradiva Balzac: Adieu Jules Barbey d'Aurevilly: Diaboliques Duras: Hiroshima, mon amour [film] Gauthier: Arria Marcella Michelet: La Sorcière Davoine and Gaudillard: History Beyond Trauma [selections]
CHEM 203ZL     : CHEM 202ZL as prerequisite and CHEM 203Z as co-requisite or equivalent transfer credit. This course is only intended for students who are taking Chem 203z concurrently. Please do not enroll if you are not.
BIOL 368L      : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites. Complete Topic: Foundational Techniques in Molecular Biology & Biotechnology Laboratory. In this LAB course you will learn techniques with practical applications in biotechnology related to gene cloning, protein expression in prokaryotic and eukaryotic systems, and recombinant protein purification. You will also express your engineered gene in mammalian cells and learn cell culture and fluorescent imaging techniques, gaining hands on experience with the same approaches used in drug discovery and vaccine development. Throughout the semester, you will construct and then carry out your own research question related to the effects of small molecules on calcium signaling. This course will fulfill elective and upper-level lab credit for the Biology major. Prerequisites: Biology 142 + 142L.
ECON 385       : This course requires ECON _OX 100 or ECON 101 or ECON_OX 101 or FIN 201 AND ECON 112 or ECON_OX112 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. Topic: Economic Strategy & Negotiation
HIST 210       : When we think about "the law," we tend to think about legal doctrine: written and somewhat rigid sets of procedures through which legal judgments are made. But when we approach the law historically, we see it as a process that changed over time under pressure from a range of forces: political, economic, social, and cultural; national, regional, and global; and driven by elites and people on the ground. The course is structured into three distinct units. Unit 1 addresses foundational inquiries pertaining to legal history. The objective of this unit is to establish a conceptual framework for analyzing law and legal orders in global perspective. Unit 2 investigates the interactions of law, society, and economy in a particular place and time, with emphasis on specific themes. Students will work with secondary literature, case studies, and primary sources. The content of Unit 2 varies, according to the research specialization and interests of the faculty member teaching the course. Unit 3 requires students to apply what they learned in Units 1 and 2 in a hands-on group project. In this iteration of HIST 210, taught by Professor Chris Suh, Unit 2 will focus on the topics of citizenship, civil rights, and precarity in the United States from the late 19th century to the present. Case studies will focus on Asian Americans' experiences with the law.
BIOL 370       : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. This course will provide an Introduction to the concepts of microbial physiology, biochemistry, genetics, and evolution. This course will fulfill the Column B requirement (or elective credit) for the Biology major. Students must also register for and attend a BIOL 370 Discussion Section. There is an optional 2-credit laboratory (BIOL 370L) associated with this course. Prerequisites: Biology 142 + 142L.
CS 171         : This course requires CS 170 OR CS_OX 170 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
CS 211         : (MATH 111 or MATH_OX 111 or QTM 100 or QTM_OX 100) and (CS 110 or CS 170 or CS_OX 170) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites.
PHYS 212       : (PHYS 151 or PHYS_OX 151) or [(PHYS 141 or PHYS_OX 141) and (MATH 112 or MATH 112Z or MATH_OX 112 or MATH_OX 112Z0] or [(PHYS 141 or PHYS_OX 141) and MATH 116)] or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as BIOL 212 1)
BIOL 370L      : [(BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX142 or BIOL 152] and BIOL 370 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. This is the 2-credit hour OPTIONAL laboratory to accompany Biology 370 (Introduction to Microbiology) and will introduce students to some of the basic techniques used in the study of physiology, biochemistry, and genetics of microorganisms. There is no textbook for this course. This course will fulfill two (2) hours of elective credit AND the upper-level lab requirement for the Biology major. Prerequisites: Biology 142 + 142L; pre- or co-requisite: Biology 370. (BIOL 370LW will no longer be offered.)
ECON 410W      : (ECON 201 or ECON_OX 201) and (ECON 212 or ECON_OX 212) or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
CS 224         : (CS 170 or CS_OX 170) and (MATH 111 or MATH_OX 111) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites.
PHYS 222       : (PHYS 142 or PHYS_OX 142 or PHYS 152 or PHYS_OX 152) and (MATH 112 or MATH_OX 112 or MATH 112Z or MATH 116) and (CHEM 205 or CHEM_OX 205 or CHEM 331 or PHYS 253 or PHYS_OX 253) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
BIOL 371       : ENVS 120 or ENVS 130 or ENVS 131 or ENVS_OX 131 or ENVS 140 or (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as ENVS 371 1) This 2-credit hour lecture course will explore the diverse biomes of the tropics. The focus will be on tropical forests and grasslands, with an emphasis on ecological processes, biodiversity, human impact on the tropics, indigenous peoples, and ethnobotany. Prerequisites: Biology 142 and Biology 142L (for Biology 371). This course is taught by Dr. Larry Wilson (adjunct faculty), is SHARED by the Biology and Environmental Science Departments, and may be taken as elective credit for the biology major. There is also an optional field course/lab associated with this course that travels to Peru during Spring Break (see BIOL 372/ENVS 372).]
CS 253         : CS 171 or 171Z or CS_OX 171 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
CS 255         : This course requires CS 171 or CS 171Z or CS_OX 171 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
BIOL 372       : This course requires ENVS 371 or BIOL 371 as a prerequisite OR permission of instructor. (Same as ENVS 372 1) This 2-credit hour field course is part of the Office of International and Summer Programs (OISP) and will be taught during Spring Break week (March 6-15, 2026) in the Amazon River lowland rainforests of southern Peru (Tambopata Research Station), famous for its huge flocks of colorful Macaws. This field course will give the student a real hands-on rainforest experience, complete with bromeliads, toucans, sloths, and the sounds of the night. Graduating Seniors and students who have previously completed BIOL 371/ENVS 371 have priority for this course. Cost for the trip is approximately $3200 (depending on airfare prices). Permission of instructor is required. This course is taught by Dr. Lawrence Wilson (lwilso3@emory.edu; adjunct faculty), is SHARED by the Biology and Environmental Science Departments, and may be taken as elective and upper-level laboratory credit for the biology major. Biology majors may submit an application to Barbara Shannon at barbara.shannon@emory.edu (and Leah Thomas in ENVS at leah.thomas@emory.edu for ENVS 372). Selected students will be notified and will have additional requirements by OISP. See the OISP website for additional information. Financial Aid scholarships from the Biology Department are available to eligible Biology majors who submit an application for the aid. Permission of the department required.
ECON 412W      : (ECON 201 or ECON_OX 201) and (ECON 212 or ECON_OX 212) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites. (Same as AFS 489W 1)
PHYS 311       : This course requires PHYS 253 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
CS 312         : CS 211 or CS 323 or CS 325 or CS 334 or CS 470 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
BIOL 385       : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. In this course, students examine the physical and chemical aspects of the marine environment, with a heavy emphasis on ecology, biodiversity, evolution, conservation, and utilization of marine resources. Furthermore, students learn about human interaction with the oceans and the current threats faced by the distinct marine ecosystems. Prerequisites: Biology 142 + 142L.
ECON 425       : (MATH 211 or MATH_OX 211 or MATH 276) and (ECON 201 or ECON_OX 201) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as MATH 425 1) (Students, please copy and paste this link in your browser to complete the enrollment request form: https://forms.office.com/r/wGAcyuzHsG ) (Permission codes will be sent out during Add/Drop/Swap. For enrollment in ECON 425, please contact Erica Bowersox (erica.blake.bowersox@emory.edu). For enrollment in Math 425, please contact Taylr Tuggle (tatuggl@emory.edu) in Math.) Permission of the department required.
PHYS 365       : PHYS 220 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ECON 433       : (ECON 112 or ECON_OX 112) and (ECON 201 or ECON_OX 201) and (ECON 220 or ECON_OX 220 or MATH 361) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
CS 325         : (CS 224 or CS_OX 224) and CS 253 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ECON 436       : (ECON 201 or ECON_OX 201) and ECON 215 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites.
PHYS 422       : PHYS 253 or PHYS_OX 253 or (CHEM 205 and CHEM 205L) or (CHEM 331 and CHEM 331L) or (CHEM 331 and CHEM 331LW) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
CS 326         : (CS 170 or CS_OX 170) and (CS 171 or CS_OX 171) and (CS 224 or CS_OX 224) and CS 253, or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
BIOL 450       : This course requires BIOL 360 or NBB 301 or IBS 514 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. The goal of this course is to provide students with a broad outline of ideas and current research areas in computational neuroscience, ranging from ion channels up to organismal behavior. Class meetings will consist of a combination of lectures and in-class computational exercises. Prerequisites: Biology 142 + 142L. Although the class will be largely self-contained, a working knowledge of introductory calculus, statistics, linear algebra, and some exposure to differential equations will be helpful (although a mathematical review will be provided). Knowing some neuroscience may also be helpful, but it is not required. Although most of the course will be taught in Matlab, only a working knowledge of basic programming control structures (e.g., for/while loops & if/then structures, etc.) is necessary, as we will devote time to coding tutorials at the beginning of the semester. If you have some coding experience but have learned R or C or Java or python, you should be fine. (This course is also taught as IBS 534.)
ECON 442       : This course requires ECON 201 OR ECON_OX201 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
CS 329         : This course requires CS 171 or CS 171Z or CS_OX 171 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. (Same as LING 329 1 and DATASCI 329 1)
BIOL 463       : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. Students must also register for the Biology 463 Discussion Section. This course will look at infectious disease spread and evolution from a population perspective at various biological scales. The following scales will be considered: (1) the population biology of infectious disease transmission, its control by vaccination, and evolution of disease at the population level; (2) impact of pathogen interactions and multiple hosts on infectious disease circulation; (3) population dynamics and pathogen evolution at the transmission event; (4) within-host population dynamics of infectious diseases; (5) replication dynamics of pathogens within cells. The class will focus on the design, simulation, and application of quantitative models to understand these infectious disease population dynamics and evolutionary dynamics. Prerequisites: Biology 142 + 142L.
AAS 490R       : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) This course is required for all graduating seniors AAS majors, and is open to graduating seniors AAS minors. Permission of the department required.
ECON 451       : ECON 220 or ECON_OX 220 or MATH 361 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
PHYS 437       : (PHYS 212 or PHYS_OX 212) and (PHYS 220 or PHYS_OX 220) and PHYS 421, or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites.
THEA 321       : THEA 223 or THEA 224 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. New Prerequisite: THEA 223 & THEA 224 or by Instructor Permission.
PSYC 110       : ("This is one-half of a two-semester introduction to the field of contemporary psychology. The course has to do with the organization and operation of the nervous system as it pertains to behavior and its cognitive underpinnings. Topics receiving special attention include the development of sexual identity, sensation and perception, learning and memory, love, fear, and other emotions. The course fulfills one-half of the introductory course requirement for psychology majors. All students enrolled in the course are required to participate in psychology department human subject research studies.
ENGCW 190      : (Freshmen Seminar - Limited to First Year Students Only) (Complete Topic: Poetry & the Practice of Attention) In this first-year seminar, we will focus on what writing and reading poetry can teach us about attention. We will progress through several themes, including memory, presence, description, distraction, and control/freedom. Students will have weekly notebook writing assignments/exercises derived from assigned readings and will also compose 5 complete poems. Feedback on those compositions from peers and the professor will be provided in workshop discussions, and students will use these comments to revise poems for an end-of-semester portfolio. Attendance at Creative Writing events is required, as is attendance at all class meetings. Absolutely no use of AI is permitted for any element of the course.
PSYC 111       : Students completing PSYC_OX 100 or equivalent cannot enroll in PSYC 111. For concerns, please contact the Psychology department. OPUS waitlist available at the beginning of add/drop/swap. (There will be small group discussions. This second semester of introductory psychology will cover in broad brushstrokes the major areas of research design, social psychology, social and emotional development, personality measurement and theory, psychopathology, and therapeutic interventions. Emphasis will be on the empirical foundations of psychological knowledge, and on fostering students' scientific thinking about behavior. Particulars: There will be one primary textbook and supplemental readings. Participation in research projects or equivalent is required.)
THEA 363       : (Same as SPAN 330 1) The objective of this course is the development of linguistic and cultural understanding in the context of theatrical performance. The course is both critical and experiential. Through close readings of texts, script analysis, memorization, development of character, writing assignments, and theatrical performance, students will develop a deeper understanding of Spanish language and Hispanic cultures through the perspectives of both disciplines, Hispanism and Theater Studies. This critical/interpretive dimension will be enriched at all stages of the course by the experiential dimension: the physical and vocal embodiment/performance of the target language and texts. Course taught in Spanish. Texts: readings will be made available on Canvas. Particulars: Class exercises will involve physical and vocal warm-ups and improvisation; assignments, including writing essays and reading plays, will include individual activities as well as activities requiring outside class preparation with partners. Prerequisite: SPAN 212 Interested students must contact Prof. Elva Gonzalez at egonza3@emory.edu or Prof. Mary Lynn Owen at mowen3@emory.edu.
ANT 495BW      : Departmental invitation to Honors Program necessary before registration. Permission of the department required.
NBB 301        : [(BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142] and (CHEM 142 or CHEM_OX 142 or CHEM 202 or CHEM_OX 202 or CHEM 202Z) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as BIOL 360 1)
DATASCI 499R   : Research Fellowships are by application and departmental permission. Students are responsible for securing their own research supervisor/lab position and credit enrollment is by application only. Please see our webpage for more details https://quantitative.emory.edu/undergraduate/experiential-learning/undergraduate-research.html Permission of the department required.
ENGCW 271W     : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Application required. If accepted, you YOU MUST ATTEND THE FIRST CLASS session to remain enrolled. Class description and application form are available on the Creative Writing Program website: https://creativewriting.emory.edu/academics/applications.html Please email nora.lewis@emory.edu if you have any questions. Permission of the department required.
NBB 301L       : [(BIOL 142 and BIOl 142L) or BIOL_OX142] and (BIOL 360 or NBB 301) or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. (Same as BIOL 360L 1) (Topic: Neural Data Simulation & Analysis Lab). Students who were on the BIOL 360L/NBB 301 wait list in Fall 2025 AND Spring 2026 graduating senior Biology majors who need to fulfill their upper-level lab requirement have priority for this class. Contact Barbara Shannon at barbara.shannon@emory.edu for permission. Through this course, you will learn basic computational and programming skills and apply them to the simulation and analysis of neural data. Course instructors will provide introductory lessons on basic coding in Python, which will be used throughout the course through collaborative, group-based lab tutorials. The focus of this course will be to use these in-lab tutorials to understand how neuroscience data is structured, analyzed, simulated, and interpreted. The course will be divided into 2 portions: (1) coding, running, and interpreting simulations of neural activity, and (2) understanding the analysis of neural data. The course consists of lectures, group lab tutorials, and individual homework assignments for each module. This course originates in the Biology Department, and it will count as an elective and upper-level laboratory credit for the Biology major. (This course does NOT COUNT as elective credit for the NBB major; the catalog description is incorrect.) Prerequisites: Biology 142/142L and Chemistry 202; pre- or co-requisite: Biology 360/NBB 301). Permission of the department required.
THEA 375R      : (Same as ENGCW 375R 1) (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) (Application required. If accepted, YOU MUST ATTEND THE FIRST CLASS session to remain enrolled. Class description and application form are available on the Creative Writing Program website: https://creativewriting.emory.edu/academics/applications.html) Please email nora.lewis@emory.edu if you have any questions. Permission of the department required.
ANT 498        : This course culminates the minor in Development Studies, with common readings and class meetings and a final presentation of completed projects to the Faculty Capstone Committee. The steering committee will approve service learning opportunities, internships, and research projects. Permission of the department required.
ENGCW 272W     : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Application required. If accepted, YOU MUST ATTEND THE FIRST CLASS session to remain enrolled. Class description and application form are available on the Creative Writing Program website: https://creativewriting.emory.edu/academics/applications.html Please email nora.lewis@emory.edu if you have any questions. PLEASE NOTE: Students will need to purchase Blue Books and writing instruments to use in class. Devices will not be permitted. Making People: Empathy and Expertise This is an introductory course on the art of fiction writing. We will focus on elements of craft such as character development, narrative control, dialogue, scene development, setting, structure, openings and endings. We will engage with fiction writing as always about creating human beings with histories, bodies, and social realities; as always about creating a world anew for an audience; and as always a form of communication with an ongoing humanity -- be it dead writers, current beloveds, future anonymous readers or one's own self. Students will come to understand the fiction workshop as a place to face fears, biases and the limitations of the imagination all via practice and hard work. Students will come to see fiction as a place to communicate as writers and critics. Students come to see fiction writing and critical reading as a place to engage bravely and vulnerably with grief, joy and the full range of human emotions between. Permission of the department required.
ANT 499        : ANT 202 or ANTH_OX 202 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This Senior Seminar explores the craft, significance, and responsibility of anthropology in the contemporary world. It will include reflections on the field, practice, and ethics of anthropology as well as direct engagement with diverse approaches to doing, writing, and representing anthropological research. Course questions include: How do contemporary anthropologists develop projects that are responsive, collaborative, and ethically engaged? How do contemporary anthropologists produce and disseminate "stories that matter? "What is public-facing anthropology and how is it produced, disseminated, and evaluated? How do anthropologists work in a range of sectors, including: urban planning, community research, public health, medicine, design & architecture, museums, applied linguistics, information technology, cultural resource management, natural resource management, consumer research, education, journalism, creative writing, government, and diplomacy? Students will develop independent projects focused on sociocultural anthropology's relevance in the 21st century and will present their ongoing research in various formats during the semester, including: work-in-progress workshops, social media posts, a research poster, and a final paper. Permission of the department required.
NBB 318        : Any NBB or WGS course or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ENGCW 370RW    : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Application required. If accepted, YOU MUST ATTEND THE FIRST CLASS session to remain enrolled. Class description and application form are available on the Creative Writing Program website: https://creativewriting.emory.edu/academics/applications.html Please email nora.lewis@emory.edu if you have any questions. Inventing Time in Short Fiction This course expands craft concepts introduced in introductory creative writing coursework with a special focus on the narrative possibilities of time. How might we maintain a short story's necessary "intensity of focus" within a timeframe that spans centuries? How might a short story that takes place over the course of an hour give every detail heightened significance? In addition to exploring the narrative pressures of different timeframes, we will look at stories that break linearity, gesturing toward the future and even using elements like time travel to negotiate the constraints of the short story form. Selections from contemporary short fiction authors like Venita Blackburn, Sean Vestal, Mariah Rigg, Jonathan Escoffery, Brenda Peynado, Steven Millhauser, Ted Chiang, and Sofia Samatar will be included in our studies. Permission of the department required.
PSYC 200W      : (PSYC 110 or PSYC_OX 110 or PSYC 111 or PSYC_OX 111) and (PSYC 230 or QTM 100 or QTM_OX 100) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ENGCW 371RW    : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Application required. If accepted, YOU MUST ATTEND THE FIRST CLASS session to remain enrolled. Class description and application form are available on the Creative Writing Program website: https://creativewriting.emory.edu/academics/applications.html Please email nora.lewis@emory.edu if you have any questions. FORMS In this intermediate course, you will find a community of poets serious about their craft, hoping to deepen their engagement with the art of poetry. Through the shared sense of trust and endeavor provided by the workshop community, we will closely read the work of published poets and that of our peers as we draft new poems ourselves. To structure our in-class discussions and the weekly creation of new work, we will look closely at prosody and the resurgence of traditional forms in the work of contemporary American poets. As we try out various forms ourselves, we will situate our own poetic experiments in a centuries-long conversation extending to our present moment. Permission of the department required.
NBB 361W       : BIOL 360/NBB301 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. NBB 301 is a prerequisite Wednesday lab 1-4 room 226
ENGCW 373R     : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Application required. If accepted, YOU MUST ATTEND THE FIRST CLASS session to remain enrolled. Class description and application form are available on the Creative Writing Program website: https://creativewriting.emory.edu/academics/applications.html Please email nora.lewis@emory.edu if you have any questions. Our course will serve as a workshop into the form and structure of fiction writing for the advanced student. We will be working in a round-table workshop format. We will learn by doing. Topics covered will include: scene work, POV, plot vs. narrative, beginning near the end, characterization, dramatic action, etc. Copying Costs: Each author will be responsible for printing out a copy of the work discussed each week in class. All work must be double-spaced, legibly printed, page-numbered consecutively with the title and author's name on the first page. We will be doing some in-class writing. Bring the tools for this: pens, paper, etc. Permission of the department required.
ENGCW 374R     : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Application required. Class description and application form are available on the Creative Writing Program website: https://creativewriting.emory.edu/academics/applications.html Please email nora.lewis@emory.edu if you have any questions. This course is intended for students with a serious commitment to poetry, and a strong belief in their ability to learn among a community of people whose work will both overlap with and differ from their own. Students will strive for excellence and excitement in the regular composition and revision of new poems, as well as an ever-broadening sense of the possibilities of our art. In addition to posting poems for workshop, students will provide context for their creative work, sharing influential texts and ideas, in order to deepen the class's collective ability to understand where their poems are coming from, and where they might be headed. Readings will include full-length poetry collections and essays on craft. Each student will be responsible for guiding discussion of one book (with a partner), and attendance at all Creative Writing Reading Series events is required. Permission of the department required.
ENGCW 375R     : (Same as THEA 375R 1) (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) (Application required. If accepted, YOU MUST ATTEND THE FIRST CLASS session to remain enrolled. Class description and application form are available on the Creative Writing Program website: https://creativewriting.emory.edu/academics/applications.html) Please email nora.lewis@emory.edu if you have any questions. This is an intensive workshop in which you will conceptualize, generate, and workshop long one-act or full-length plays (minimum 60 pages). This is NOT a place to expand or revise an already-existing script. We are collectively starting at the beginning (a very good place to start). Adaptations are not allowed; riffs might be (let's talk about it). The assumption is that you already know how to write a play by gaining entry into this course. Our goal this semester is to push that knowledge further and expand the scope of your work. Permission of the department required.
ENGCW 376RW    : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Application required. If accepted, YOU MUST ATTEND THE FIRST CLASS session to remain enrolled. Class description and application form are available on the Creative Writing Program website: https://creativewriting.emory.edu/academics/applications.html Please email nora.lewis@emory.edu if you have any questions. Nonfiction Magazine and Long-form Writing. No pre-requisite. This class is NOT open to first-year students. This workshop is focused on long-form, nonfiction magazine and feature writing -- reading it, reporting it, writing it, and doing so in ways and by means that separate the exceptional from the pedestrian. This is nonfiction. Be prepared to be a reporter, to meet people face-to-face, to ask questions, to see and hear things with your own eyes and ears. My goal is to get your work published. We'll have visiting experts on hand as we discuss where great ideas come from, how to be strategic in your reporting, the art of the interview, and crafting stories, then stories within stories. We're looking mostly at print, but we will see beyond the dead tree media at the growing opportunities for magazine-style writing and long-form narratives online. Ultimately, the goal of the course is for you to become a considerably wiser and more effective nonfiction storyteller, for which the basis is sound reporting. Students should budget to purchase the textbook and for photocopying. Permission of the department required.
ENGCW 378RW    : ENGCW 270/270W or ENGCW_OX 270 or ENGCW 271/271W or ENGCW_OX 271 or ENGCW 272/272W or FILM 101 or FILM_OX 101 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as FILM 378RW 2) (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Application required. YOU MUST ATTEND THE SECOND CLASS session to remain enrolled. Class description and application form are available on the Creative Writing Program website: https://creativewriting.emory.edu/academics/applications.html Please email nora.lewis@emory.edu if you have any questions. WRITING THE SHORT FILM. Instructor will be incoming Screenwriting Fellow, Carolyn Kras. This course introduces students to dramatic writing for short motion pictures. The topics covered include visual writing, plot, story structure, character, and dialogue. Emphasis is placed on telling a story in cinematic terms. In addition to completing several writing assignments, students are expected to develop, pitch, outline, and write a short screenplay. Permission of the department required.
ARAB 202       : ARAB_OX 201 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
NBB 380        : NBB 280 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Permission of the department required.
ENGCW 389      : (Same as FILM 385 2) (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Application required. If accepted, YOU MUST ATTEND THE FIRST CLASS session to remain enrolled. Class description and application form are available on the Creative Writing Program website: https://creativewriting.emory.edu/academics/applications.html Please email nora.lewis@emory.edu if you have any questions. No pre-requisite. This class is NOT open to first-year students. If journalism has historically been considered a pure and ethically-driven form of nonfiction; if, pardon the cliché, it is the first rough draft of history; if its principle motivator in this nation's history has been the pursuit of truth, justice and the American way (you did know Superman/Clark Kent was a newspaper reporter, right?); and if it is the most zealous guardian of not just any amendment to the U.S. Constitution but the First Amendment, then why is the profession of journalism historically misrepresented as crude and corrupt when Hollywood tries to tell its story? Or is the profession's purity just an old former newspaperman's misguided fantasy that confuses vice and virtue in a vocation that consumed him and his conscience for more than 35 years? Newsrooms have long been filled with quiet creative geniuses and loudmouth miscreants, the brilliant and the boorish, the talented and the tawdry, and yet there are few if any professions as tethered to, and as cognizant of, a code of ethics. What does that get you? Good fodder for screenwriters and filmmakers of feature films and documentaries at home and abroad. We'll dive into this history and have some lively assignments and discussions. Permission of the department required.
ENGCW 389W     : (Complete Topic - Inside/Outside: Writing and Reading Archival Poetics & Eco-Poetics) (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Application required. If accepted, YOU MUST ATTEND THE FIRST CLASS session to remain enrolled. Class description and application form are available on the Creative Writing Program website: https://creativewriting.emory.edu/academics/applications.html Please email nora.lewis@emory.edu if you have any questions. Inside/Outside: Writing and Reading Archival Poetics & Eco-Poetics Pre-requisite: NONE In this course we will go inside, into artifacts and archives, to write poetry that arises from what other humans create and leave behind. We will also go out into nature to write poetry that comes out of the natural world. We will consider grass and rain as works of art worthy of poetic response. We will consider human "stuff" as materiality worthy of poetic examination. We will experiment with poetic forms, as they may be relevant or inspirational. Permission of the department required.
FREN 101       : FREN 101-1 Elementary French I (Prof. Sandra Descourtis / Mondays and Wednesdays 10:00-11:15AM; Fridays online synchronous 10:00-10:50AM) ***NOTE: This course has "tiered enrollment" (certain number of seats available for each class). The class will open to all at the beginning of the drop/add period.*** Content: This beginning-level course introduces students to reading, writing, speaking, and understanding the French language via exploration of various aspects of the French-speaking world. The course is conducted entirely in French. Instruction proceeds from guided to more creative and independent work with emphasis on speaking, writing, communication, and active participation. Students will complete at-home practice with the required online textbook and platform: Atelier-MindTap. FREN 101 is open to beginners and students with up to one year of high school French. Please note: Students with prior experience in French must provide language placement results to the instructor. Wait lists will open for the course during the add/drop period at the beginning of the semester.
PSYC 326       : PSYC 111 or PSYC_OX 111 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Prior completion of PSYC 110, or PSYC 111, OR AP/IB credit in psychology. Juniors and seniors only. Others, permission of the instructor is required prior to enrollment.
NBB 426        : PSYC 110 or PSYC_OX 110 or BIOL 142 or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
MATH 250       : This course requires MATH 111 as prerequisite AND MATH 112 or MATH_OX112 or MATH 112Z or MATH_OX112Z or equivalent transfer credit.
MATH 270       : MATH 112 or MATH 112S or MATH 112Z or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
MATH 276       : MATH 275 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Permission of the department required.
BIOL 142       : This course requires BIOL 141 and BIOL 141L or BIOL 151or BIOL_OX141 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. Students must also register for a BIOL 142L section. This course expands on the fundamentals learned in Biology 141. The topics covered in class will address major issues in research and medicine, emphasizing critical thinking involved in modern biological discovery. Prerequisites: Biology 141 and Biology 141L; Corequisite: Biology 142L.
BIOL 223       : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. This course will introduce you to the broad field of Developmental Biology. The fertilized egg, a single cell, gives rise to many cells that form complex multicellular organisms with many different cell types, tissues, and organs. The overall goal of developmental biology is to elucidate the cellular and molecular processes that control this amazing achievement. The study of development spans molecular biology, cell biology, genetics, embryology, and importantly, evolution. These perspectives will be used to explore general principals and fundamental mechanisms that are shared between many diverse organisms, focusing on invertebrate and vertebrate animals. This includes consideration of human development with examples of medically relevant disorders and social and ethical questions related to the field. This course fulfills the Column A requirement (or elective credit) for the Biology major. Prerequisites: Biology 142 + 142L.
BIOL 237L      : (BIOL 142 or BIOL_OX 142) and BIOL 142L and BIOL 236L or equivalent transfer credits as prerequisites. This is the second semester of a two-semester course for pre-allied health students. Students who have completed BIOL 236L in Fall 2025 may take this course. Please contact Barbara Shannon at barbara.shannon@emory.edu to request a permission number. Prerequisites: Biology 236L. THIS COURSE DOES NOT COUNT TOWARD THE BIOLOGY MAJOR. Permission of the department required.
BIOL 240       : This course requires BIOL 141, and BIOL 141L or BIOL 151or BIOL_OX141 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. Recommended for second-year Biology students. Major topics include evolutionary biology and the physiology of animals and plants in an evolutionary and ecological context. This course will fulfill the Column B requirement (or elective credit) for the Biology major. Prerequisites: Biology 141 (or AP credit). Students with AP credit for Biology 141 may take Biology 240 before (or at the same time) as taking Biology 142 and Biology 142L.
BIOL 241       : BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L, or BIOL_OX 142 or BIOL_OX 142X, or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This course is a study of factors that cause genetic change and of the evolutionary consequences of such changes. Topics include population genetics, adaptation and natural selection, evolution of genes, proteins, and genomes, sexual selection, kin selection, speciation, and diversification of taxa. Emphasis will be on molecular, genetic, ecological, and evolutionary factors related to variation and adaptation to environment, and constraints on adaptation. Students must also register for a BIOL 241-1 Discussion Section. Prerequisites: Biology 142 and Biology 142L. This course fulfills the Column C requirement (or elective credit) for the biology major.
REES 423W      : (Same as HIST 423W 1) (This course will concentrate on the broad experience of Muslims within various Russian states. Russia has been Europe's largest Muslim minority state since the 16th century and Muslims still make up about 14% of the Russian Federation's population, making them a major contributor to Russian history. Muslims were variously persecuted, wooed, assimilated, tolerated, forcibly converted, protected, "ignored," "modernized," socialized and granted independence and autonomy by various incarnations of the Russian state. Topics such as the conquest of Kazan and the steppe, the establishment of state-controlled Islam, the colonization of the North Caucasus and Central Asia, the shock of war and revolution, forced secularization, the late Soviet rise of a political Islam, and post-Soviet political Islam will all be discussed. Students will be required to make an oral presentation, write a book review of a class book and write a final research paper.)
GRK 102        : Content: A continuation of Elementary Greek I (GRK 101 at Emory or the equivalent is a prerequisite). This course continues the introduction of the basic grammar and syntax of classical Greek within its larger cultural context. The course aims to move students into reading selections from major classical authors as quickly as possible. In the second semester, we will be reading adapted selections from Plato, Aristophanes, historians, and the orators, chosen to illuminate the history and culture of ancient Greece at its zenith. Texts: (students enrolled for the first semester will already have these texts). JACT, Reading Greek: Text & Vocabulary (Cambridge UP) ISBN: 978-0521698511 JACT, Reading Greek: Grammar & Exercises (Cambridge UP) ISBN: 978-0521698528 Particulars: Quizzes, three or four tests, and a final examination. Classwork and homework are important components of the final grade.
REL 190        : (Same as PHIL 190 3) (Freshmen Seminar - Limited to First Year Students Only) (This course satisfies the Religion major requirement: - Tradition-Buddhism.) (Suffering is a universal feature of human life. No one who lives does not also suffer. This insight is the starting point for the Buddha's teachings on the nature of the human condition and the possibility of human flourishing. Although suffering is universal, diverse causes of suffering can be identified. Once identified, these causes can be ameliorated so that the suffering they produce is either less harmful or even eliminated. Humans can learn how to live with suffering and to transform it into something beautiful, just as a gardener uses manure to nourish beautiful flowers. To turn suffering into a path of well-being, however, requires many skills. We need to learn how to look deeply to see the complex causes of suffering. Then we need to learn to see how these causes can be ameliorated or even undone. We also need to train in the methods for ameliorating and undoing the causes of suffering. These methods require work at the personal as well as the communal levels, at the surface as well as the deeper levels of our embodied minds. This course is an introduction to traditional and contemporary Buddhist theories of well-being, happiness, and flourishing, along with some of the methods designed to bring these about.)
CL 487         : "A research and methods seminar intended for Junior/Senior majors in the Classics department; sophomores may enroll with instructor permission." Permission of the department required.
REL 300W       : This course, while open to all undergraduates, is a required course for undergraduate students at Emory majoring in Religion. The aim of the course is to introduce students to the study of religion as an academic field so that they may better situate their own research and writing within the larger landscape of modern scholarship in this area. Students will become familiar with major sociological, anthropological and hermeneutic approaches which pursue questions about the function, origin, comparison and language of religion. We will explore key terms in the contemporary study of religion such as culture, body, performance, rationality. Throughout, we will be concerned with the ways in which the category of religion has been and continues to be constructed by those who study it. This class is designed to increase students' methodological self-awareness as scholars of religion.
ITAL 320W      : ITAL 202 or ITAL_OX 202 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. ITAL 320W. Business Italian (Prof. Simona Muratore / Mondays/Wednesdays 2:30-3:45pm) Content: This advanced-level course, taught entirely in Italian, focuses on developing practical workforce skills and global competencies for engaging with Italian-speaking businesses and prospective employers. Students will explore Italian business culture, practices, and etiquette while expanding business-related vocabulary and strengthening professional communication skills. Through authentic materials, electronic exchanges, guest speakers, and panel discussions, students will practice collaborative, presentational, oral, and written communication in real-world contexts. The course culminates in the organization of Italian Business Night, a community-engaged event that connects students with Italian entrepreneurs and professionals, offering valuable networking opportunities and preparation for future international career paths. Assessment: Weekly assignments, reflections papers, oral presentations and final paper, Italian Business night organization.
REL 490W       : This senior symposium for Religion majors asks: "What's the point of a Religion major in 2026?" It looks to pull together some threads of previous coursework in religious studies as a capstone, and it also serves as a steppingstone to look beyond graduation into how the study of religion might contribute to one's life. As a capstone to their academic work, students will develop a research paper on a topic of their choice. As a steppingstone, students will examine how religious studies might relate to future careers and engagements with diverse communities. Throughout the course, we will invite past Religion majors and people using religious studies in their careers into the classroom. We will also venture out to religious sites in and around Atlanta. Permission of the department required.
LACS 385       : This course is an interdisciplinary overview of the history of Puerto Rico. Particular emphasis will be placed on the last 30 years of US colonial rule in Puerto Rico and resistance movements. Hierarchies of race, gender, sexuality, the urban/rural and class will ground our explorations of: colonization & racio-colonial capitalism, sovereignty, nationhood, migration & diaspora, debt, disaster, mutual aid, tourism, and various forms of protest and resistance. Recent scholarly work by Jorell Meléndez Badillo, Yomaira Figueroa, Marisol Lebrón, Yarimar Bonilla, Hilda Lloréns, Petra Rivera-Rideau, Vanessa Diaz, Michelle Rosario, Jose Atiles and others will be featured. Weekly assignments will include readings, podcasts and analyzing artistic productions. Students will work on a longer form written piece as well as a multimedia presentation over the course of the semester. Knowledge of Spanish is not required.
FILM 202       : FILM 101 or FILM_OX 101 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
FILM 203       : FILM 101 or FILM 102 or FILM_OX 270 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ECS 100        : This course is for students selected to be Orientation Student Coordinators. Please register using the permission number you received. Permission of the department required.
SOC 446W       : (Same as LING 446W 1 & DATASCI 446W 1) The course deals with new tools of analysis and visualization of text data. It is a 4-credits course, fulfilling the writing requirement with extensive weekly writing. The course does NOT require any prerequisites or prior knowledge of computational tools. Freshmen are not allowed to register. Text corpora will be assigned for analysis but students are welcome to use their own texts (e,g., newspaper articles, books, blogs). The course is based on a set of specialized Natural Language Processing tools (NLP), written in Python, designed for the analysis of small/large corpora of text. The tools come with an easy-to-use Graphical User Interface (GUI). From sentence splitter, to tokenizer, lemmatizer, parser with its Part-of-Speech tags (POSTAG), Dependency Relations (DEPREL), Named Entity Recognition (NER), semantic trees, sentence complexity and text readability, noun and verb analysis, n-grams viewer, sentiment analysis, topic modelling, extraction of SVOs (Subject-Verb-Object), and shape of stories, word embeddings (Word2Vec) you will learn the language of Natural Language Processing (NLP). The course also embeds tools of data visualization as word clouds, Excel-type charts, network graphs, and Geographic Information System (GIS) maps. The course uses freeware software exclusively. The course has no required books.
FILM 213       : FILM 107 or ARTVIS 107 or FILM_OX 107 or FILM_OX 107E or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This class will be held in the Department of Film and Media's brand new production facility located at Emory Point. Address: 1568 Avenue Pl Ste 140 Atlanta, GA 30329 This class has an Equipment Fee of $125 which grants students access to equipment provided by the department.
SOC 457W       : Any SOC or SOC_OX or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (This course examines the development of sociological theory and conveys its diverse insights by analyzing the ideas of major theorists, placing those ideas in context, testing them against recent evidence, and applying them to contemporary issues.)
ACT 477        : (ACT 200 or ACT_OX 200) and (FIN 320 or FIN_OX 320) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites. Familiarity with a programing language (ideally Python, but other languages will also be sufficient). This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
SOC 461        : Any one SOC course as prerequisite or equivalent transfer credit. Seminar on sociological aspects of Apollo space era (1961-1972), focusing on social and cultural aspects of four new realities: "Spaceflight," "Astronaut," "Astronaut Family," and "NASA." Students use primary source material from the Stuart A. Rose Library and the Apollo 15 Learning Hub to create final projects. Class Notes Only 12 humans have walked on the Moon; only 24 have orbited the Moon. No human has been beyond Earth's orbit since the last Apollo lunar mission in 1972. The Apollo missions were extraordinary scientific achievements; they were also historical events located in particular social contexts. This seminar course takes a sociological approach to explore the Apollo era (1961-1972), focusing on four main areas: "Spaceflight" "Astronaut," "Astronaut Family," and "NASA." We will begin with brief background on the political, technological, and broader social contexts of the time. Then we will delve deeper into various social and cultural aspects of these four new realities: "Spaceflight" (e.g., media constructions and projections), "Astronaut" (e.g., links to test pilot culture; gendered construction of a new occupation), "Astronaut Family" (e.g., relationship with the press; the unpaid work roles of wives; creating new NASA communities) and "NASA" (e.g., PR efforts and image constructions; early organizational culture). Students will work with primary source material from the Stuart A. Rose Manuscript and Rare Book Library, the Emory Center for Digital Scholarship's Apollo 15 Learning Hub as well as other digital archival material (from data collected by Professor Scott) to create their own projects on one of the main topic areas. Requirements: Three short research assignments that will build into a final project, in the form of an op-ed article. Drafts of the final project will be peer reviewed and discussed in class. Class attendance and discussion are integral to this course. Prerequisite: one Sociology course.
SOC 489        : (Same as HLTH 485 2) Updated course description TBD (This course is the required capstone for all seniors with a Health Innovation Concentration graduating in Spring 2026, Summer 2026, or Fall 2026) Please visit this link and complete this quick form to receive permission to enroll: https://forms.gle/cgBoVVMyWoRpw5qbA
FILM 278W      : FILM 101 or FILM_OX 101 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This class will be held in the Department of Film and Media's brand new production facility located at Emory Point. Address: 1568 Avenue Pl Ste 140 Atlanta, GA 30329
HIST 423W      : (Same as REES 423W 1) (This course will concentrate on the broad experience of Muslims within various Russian states. Russia has been Europe's largest Muslim minority state since the 16th century and Muslims still make up about 14% of the Russian Federation's population, making them a major contributor to Russian history. Muslims were variously persecuted, wooed, assimilated, tolerated, forcibly converted, protected, "ignored," "modernized," socialized and granted independence and autonomy by various incarnations of the Russian state. Topics such as the conquest of Kazan and the steppe, the establishment of state-controlled Islam, the colonization of the North Caucasus and Central Asia, the shock of war and revolution, forced secularization, the late Soviet rise of a political Islam, and post-Soviet political Islam will all be discussed. Students will be required to make an oral presentation, write a book review of a class book and write a final research paper.)
FILM 295W      : (FILM 101 or FILM_OX 101) and (FILM 102 or FILM_OX 102) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites. In this workshop, students will learn about the instructor's research and also develop their own research topics. This semester, Dr. Tanine Allison will share her ongoing research in progress about computer-generated imagery (CGI) and visual effects sequences in movies. The class will discuss these technologies in relation to issues of performance and identity, especially race and gender. Students will learn how to research topics like performance capture, deepfake/AI imagery, and the visual effects (VFX) industry. They will explore their own research projects in relation to this topic and participate in various kinds of writing and creative scholarship, such as video essays or podcasts.
HIST 494R      : One HIST course 200 level or above or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Permission of the department required.
DANC 207R      : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Audition required at the beginning of the semester. Email dance@emory.edu for details. Permission of the department required.
HIST 495A      : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) For History Honors Students Only Permission of the department required.
OAM 335        : BBA and SPECSTUBUS students can enroll. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
FILM 307       : FILM 207 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This class will be held in the Department of Film and Media's brand new production facility located at Emory Point. Address: 1568 Avenue Pl Ste 140 Atlanta, GA 30329 This class has an Equipment Fee of $125 which grants students access to equipment provided by the department.
HIST 495BW     : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) For Graduating History Honors Students Only. Permission of the department required.
DANC 220       : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) (This class is open only to declared dance majors and minors. Please email George Staib for a permission number: gstaib@emory.edu.) (Class meets in Cox Hall room A) Permission of the department required.
SPAN 102       : SPAN 101 or SPAN_OX 101 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Spanish 102 is the second course in a beginning-level language sequence and is an integrated skills course designed to promote communication with Hispanic communities and to heighten cultural awareness. Students participate in paired, small-group, and whole-class conversation/listening activities that focus on meaningful communication as well as reading and writing. As such, the goals of this course include the following: 1. learning to use Spanish to communicate, primarily in speaking and listening, but also in reading and writing; 2. learning of and about the tools of communication: basic linguistic units (words, idioms, verb forms, sounds) and grammar (rules which permit you to combine the units meaningfully); 3. and studying Hispanic cultures to begin to understand how culture affects language use. Prerequisite: successful completion of Spanish 101 at Emory, at Emory at Oxford, transfer credit for Span 101 from another institution, or permission of the Director of Placement
FILM 378RW     : ENGCW 270/270W or ENGCW_OX 270 or ENGCW 271/271W or ENGCW_OX 271 or ENGCW 272/272W or FILM 101 or FILM_OX 101 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as ENGCW 378RW 3)
SPAN 111       : Spanish 111 is an accelerated beginning-level language course designed to advance students towards a higher level of proficiency in both communication in the Spanish language and cultural knowledge of Hispanic communities. The course is intended for students with previous education in Spanish who need additional review and practice before advancing to the intermediate level. The goals of this course include the following: 1. Further improving communicative ability through speaking, listening, reading and writing skills; 2. Developing a more complex understanding of the tools of communication: basic linguistic units (words, idioms, verb forms, sounds) and grammar (rules which permit you to combine the units meaningfully); 3. Facilitating advancement from a primarily receptive to a productive use of the language; 4. Expanding cultural awareness, familiarity with and understanding of Hispanic cultures. and understanding of the relationship of culture to language. Prerequisite: Official Spanish Placement into Span 111 is required to remain in the course. (Take the Spanish placement exam online at http://spanport.emory.edu/home/undergraduate/placement/index.html)
FILM 379RW     : FILM 378R or ENGCW 378R or FILM 378RW or ENGCW 378RW or FILM_OX 378RW or ENG_OX 378RW or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as ENGCW 379RW 1)
SPAN 190       : (Same as JS 190 1) (Freshmen Seminar - Limited to First Year Students Only) Description: When and why did Jews immigrate to Latin America? What kinds of challenges did they face in their new societies? What about Latinx Jews: how do they fit into the so-called "American story"? This course will introduce students to the history and cultures of Jews in Latin America as well as Latinx Jews in our own country. Issues we will address include acculturation and assimilation; language preservation and acquisition; ethnic and racial identities; the role of religion; family life, among others. Texts will include memoirs, novels and short stories, documentary and fiction films, poetry, journalism, music, cookbooks, and scholarly essays. The seminar will also feature guest speakers. No prior knowledge of Jewish culture or religious traditions is required or assumed. Course readings and discussions are conducted in English. Evaluation: Active participation in seminar discussions; weekly postings on Canvas; 2 short essays (~5 pp.); final project.
HLTH 324       : HLTH 220 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Performing artists & performers in training, including musicians, singers, actors, & dancers, have unique energy & nutritional demands, yet little attention has been given to their nutritional needs, making them subject to nutrition myths that are likely to be counterproductive. Whether it is a dancer managing the last of a hundred pirouettes in a ballet, or a jazz trumpeter motivating people to tap their feet in the last set of a long evening, it takes power, concentration, & endurance to bring all the elements of a successful performance together. Performing artists must manage the dynamic interaction between energy/nutrient utilization & provision to help assure a long, healthful, & successful career. This course will cover the nutritional elements that will help students understand the basic science behind nutritional recommendations, & strategies that can help performing artists achieve the desired body profile, optimal hydration, endurance, & health. Special attention will be given to artists of different age and sex, the nutritional stresses associated with travel, performing in hot & humid environments, & optimal eating strategies that can help artists prepare for performances at different times of day and night. Students can still enroll without the HLTH 220 prerequisite. Please complete this permission request form starting 11/20/25 https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CSHH5261OPR and reach out to Ms. Addy (shiyra.sadoff@emory.edu) for questions.
HLTH 350R      : HLTH 250 or HLTH_OX 250 or ANT 205 or ANTH_OX 205 or SOC 250 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This course will provide an overview of climate change science and the public health impacts, with an emphasis on the cultural and social dimension of impacts, vulnerability and adaptation. We will begin with a review of the evidence on climate change and variability and explore a number of topics related to climate change of interest to the anthropological and global health community, such as: Disparate Impacts: The Global North vs the Global South; Food security: Climate change impacts on food quality and quantity; Climate change and biodiversity loss; Environmental Justice as a policy frame; Arctic and Circumpolar health issues; Indigenous perceptions of climate change; Impacts on oceans; Climate Refugees: Migration and population displacement. (Prerequisite: HLTH 250)
POLS 370B      : (Same as CBSC 370B1, ENVS 370B 1, and SOC 370B 1) Permission of the department required.
POLS 370L      : (Same as CBSC 370L 1, ENVS 370L 1, and SOC 370L 1) Permission of the department required.
POLS 374W      : POLS 110 or POLS_OX 110 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
POLS 394       : POLS 208 or POLS_OX 208 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Course Title: Foreign Policy of Major Powers
FIN 486        : FIN 425 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. SPECSTUBUS students are allowed to enroll. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
ENG 300W       : (Same as LING 363W 1) Pre-1700 One semester of intensive language study will result in a proficient reading knowledge of the West Saxon dialect (standard Old English) such that we can explore the culture of the Anglo-Saxons and better understand the language we speak today. Selections from heroic and religious poetry and prose will begin with the first known poem in the English language and will also include the Wanderer and Seafarer, the Battle of Maldon, the Dream of the Rood, Ælfric's preface to Genesis, and King Alfred's lament over the faded glory of English learning. Classes consist of prepared translation, short lectures, and discussion. The standard lexicographic and bibliographic tools in Old English will be covered. Some previous foreign language study is desirable but not required; students should be prepared to use a glossary. We will also read Beowulf in translation, as well as selected passages in Old English.
ANT 201        : The overall goal of this course is to build an understanding of (1) the processes that led to modern human biocultural variation and (2) how we know what we know. Like other anthropological fields, we will attempt to answer the question: what does it mean to be human? Our focus is on biological and evolutionary processes, but that includes behavior and culture because these are impacted by, and have impacts on, our biology. This class begins with an overview of genetics and evolutionary theory, providing a foundation for the rest of the course. Then we use this knowledge to explore examples of adaptation and microevolution among modern humans and to address misconceptions about human variation. Next, we will turn to macroevolution of our species, Homo sapiens, using comparative and paleoanthropological approaches. With the comparative approach, we focus on anatomy and behavior of living non-human primates to identify traits we share with them and traits that are uniquely human. Paleoanthropology combines our knowledge of living primates with observations from the fossil record to trace the evolution of primates and hominins (humans and their ancestors) over millions of years. Therefore, we will gain insight into our own evolutionary past and attempt to identify where, when, why, and how our biological and cultural traits emerged. Permission request form: https://forms.office.com/r/hehCBknHK0
FIN 499R       : FIN 220 or FIN 320 or SPECSTUBUS students or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program. This course explores the dynamic intersection of real estate and technology, focusing on how digital innovations reshape the industry. Students will comprehensively understand the real estate lifecycle, key players, and emerging technologies transforming traditional practices. The course will examine pain points, inefficiencies, and opportunities for innovation in the real estate sector while also analyzing the challenges faced by new technologies in gaining widespread adoption. Through lectures, case discussions, guest speakers, and a field study, students will explore existing and emerging PropTech solutions across various areas, including marketplaces, new asset classes, major functions, data analytics, and AI applications. Engagement with executives from PropTech startups and established real estate firms will provide real-world insights into the practical applications and challenges of implementing innovative solutions.
DATASCI 185    : This course offers a non-technical introduction to artificial intelligence and its effects on institutions, work and everyday life. The course is practical: students will learn how modern systems are designed and how to ask the right questions about data, reliability and harms. The course combines short demonstrations (no programming experience required), case studies, and project work. It is suitable for undergraduate students from any faculty who want a grounded understanding of what AI can and cannot do.
POLS 494       : POLS 208 or POLS_OX 208 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Complete Topic: Power, Politics, and Law in the US Executive Branch)
POLS 494W      : POLS 208 or POLS_OX 208 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Complete Topic: Globalization and Its Discontents)
HLTH 397R      : HLTH 210 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Permission of the department required.
DATASCI 210    : (MATH 210 or MATH_OX 210 or MATH 211 or MATH_OX 211) and (QTM 150 or QTM_OX 150) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
DATASCI 220    : (QTM 110 or QTM_OX 110) and [QTM 210 or QTM_OX 210 or (MATH 361 and MATH 362)] and (MATH 221 or MATH_OX 221) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites.
HLTH 415       : HLTH 210 & HLTH 230 & HLTH 250 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. During their final Spring semester, students are required to develop a response to a problem presented in the capstone course. This project will require a problem-solving approach that integrates concepts from across the curriculum. The project and its presentation must demonstrate that the student has mastered the core competencies of the human health major. The topic and format of the final project may vary from year to year. (Prerequisites: HLTH 210, HLTH 230, AND HLTH 250- If you don't have these prerequisites completed, please reach out to Ms. Addy at Shiyra.sadoff@emory.edu) This course is restricted to, and required for, all Human Health majors and Predictive Health minors graduating in Spring 2026, Summer 2026, or Fall 2026 Permission only - you must complete the CSHH senior requirements review for a permission number to enroll. Permission of the department required.
DATASCI 302W   : (Same as ENGRD 302W) (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) (Juniors and seniors with declared majors or minors offered by the Department of Data and Decision Sciences will receive permission codes for this course prior to the pre-registration period. Students must use the provided code to enroll during their assigned registration period. Enrollment will be on a first-come, first-served basis, and once the enrollment cap is reached, the waitlist will be activated automatically). Technical Writing for Data Science - Technical Writing prepares students to analyze complex information and produce clear, ethical, and reader-centered documents across professional contexts. Through hands-on projects and collaborative practice, students will learn to analyze writing contexts, manage the communication life cycle, and adapt style and format to diverse audiences and global contexts. Assignments across multiple genres such as an archival observation report, an interview transcript, and a formal cover letter will help students develop their written, oral, electronic, and visual communication strategies. Permission of the department required.
HLTH 420       : HLTH 220 and (BIOL 141 or BIOL_OX 141 or CHEM 141 or CHEM_OX 141 or CHEM 151 or CHEM_OX 151) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Nutrition is at the center of a cultural dialogue about health, though the line between cultural ideology and scientific knowledge is increasingly unclear. In this course, students will learn and use evidence-based nutrition knowledge to critically analyze health-related information, fads, and myths in popular media and translate the scientific evidence to the greater community. (Prerequisite: HLTH 220)
DATASCI 329    : QTM 220 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as CS 329 1 and LING 329 1)
DATASCI 340    : (QTM 150 and QTM 151) or CS 170 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
HLTH 470       : ECON 320 and (ECON 371 or ECON 372 or ECON 372W or HLTH 370) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as ECON 470 1)
HLTH 485       : Complete Topic: Community Health Education Strategies. This course builds upon foundational health courses offered through CSHH and the Health 123 program by allowing students to translate knowledge gained in the classroom to novel settings. Students will identify & analyze various techniques, media & approaches used in community health education. Students will be introduced to concepts of program planning by participating in the development of currently functioning health education programs at Emory and within the Atlanta community. Completion of the Health 300 course is preferred but not required. This is a permission only course, please email Dr. Logan Edwards at logan.edwards@emory.edu for permission to enroll. Special Note: HLTH 485 courses count differently within the majors/minors; they are not all equivalent. Please pay close attention to the exact course title and categories that specific title counts in, which you can find on our requirements sheets and course summary sheets. If you have any questions, please reach out to CSHH administration. Permission of the department required.
DATASCI 345    : QTM 220 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
BUS 300        : This section is reserved for students in the BBA program. Class meets 26-Jan, 23-Feb, 23-Mar
BUS 300B       : This section is reserved for students in the BBA program. Permission of the department required.
DATASCI 385    : This course offers a rigorous introduction to social choice theory, the formal study of how individual preferences, values, and judgments can be aggregated into collective decisions. The course begins with the necessary logical and mathematical foundations, covering propositional and predicate logic, basic set theory, and binary relations. We then develop the theory of individual choice and rationality, examining orderings, preference relations, maximality, acyclicity, and rational choice functions, along with Sen's conditions ( and ß) and Houthakker's Weak Axiom of Revealed Preference. Building on this foundation, the course turns to social aggregation mechanisms, including classical voting rules, their axiomatic characterizations (e.g., May's Theorem, Black's Theorem), and the challenges posed by Arrow's axioms and his celebrated impossibility theorem. We also study issues of manipulation, strategy-proofness, and the Gibbard-Satterthwaite theorem. The course concludes with broader normative debates, including Sen's impossibility of a Paretian liberal and Gibbard's theory of alienable rights. Throughout, students will engage both with formal proofs and with the philosophical and institutional implications of the results, making the course suitable for students in political science, philosophy, and economics who are interested in the logic and limits of collective decision-making. Prerequisites: Some prior exposure to formal methods (logic, mathematics, or microeconomic theory) is recommended.
HLTH 495BW     : HLTH 210 and HLTH 230 and HLTH 250 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. Permission of the department required.
BUS 350        : MATH_OX 117 or MATH 207/MATH_OX 207 or MATH 362 or ECON 220/ECON_OX 220 or QTM 100/QTM_OX 100 or QTM 110/QTM_OX 110 or SOC 275 or QTM 999XFR or QTM_OX ELEC as prereq. SPECSTUBUS stud.can enroll. Students enrolled or who took ISOM 350 can't take BUS 350. This section is reserved for students in the Emory College Liberal Arts and Sciences program.
MUS 315        : MUS 122 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Prerequisite: XXX) Pre-requisite MUS 122
BUS 365        : Students enrolled in the NDBU program not allowed to enroll in this course. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
DATASCI 398R   : The application form will open November 6. You should have your spring enrollment completed before submitting an application. Peer mentorships are by application and departmental permission. Available positions vary semester to semester depending on course offerings and faculty assignments. Student applications open the semester prior to the semester of the mentorship (i.e. mid-fall for spring positions, mid-spring for fall positions). Please see our webpage https://quantitative.emory.edu/undergraduate/networking-engagement/teaching-assistantships.html for more details. Permission of the department required.
ANT 332        : Juniors or Seniors only or permission of instructor required for enrollment.
DATASCI 445    : QTM 345 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
DATASCI 447    : QTM 347 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
BUS 380        : Students enrolled in the NDBU program not allowed to enroll in this course. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program. Permission of the department required.
DATASCI 465    : (QTM 151 or QTM_OX 151) and QTM 220 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites.
PORT 102       : CONTENT: PORT 102 is a beginning-level integrated skills language course. This courses helps students develop a basic ability to communicate in Portuguese. Class time is dedicated to interactive activities that allow students to acquire skills in speaking, listening, reading and writing. Through music, videos, and readings of authentic materials, students are also introduced to many aspects of Lusophone culture. Class meets four times per week and is conducted in Portuguese in order to maximize exposure to the language. PARTICULARS: Evaluation is based on daily and active participation, homework, quizzes, writing activities, exams, final presentation, and Portuguese program activities. PREREQUISITES: PORT 101 or equivalent (including courses taken during a Study Abroad Program).
PORT 110       : CONTENT: PORT 110 is an intensive course for students with little or no preparation in the language, but are Spanish speakers (or of another Romance Language). It stresses the fundamental language skills of understanding, speaking, reading and also writing. Aspects of Lusophone culture will also be presented. Classes will be taught mostly in Portuguese in order to expose the students to the language. It is also a goal of the course to create a positive interaction among the students. Group work will be frequent, as well as the use of the students' different background and experience with the language. It covers the equivalent of two semesters (PORT 101 and PORT 102). PARTICULARS: Evaluation is based on daily and active participation, homework, quizzes, writing activities, exams, and Portuguese program activities. PREREQUISITES: No preparation in the language is required but the course is designed specifically for speakers of another Romance Language. Students who have taken the Spanish Placement exam and have been placed at the 300 level or above are encouraged to take Port 110. Students who place in SPAN 212 should contact ana.teixeira@emory.edu for placement information. PORT 110 may be combined with PORT 201 or with SPAN 212 or a Spanish Foundational Course (300-318) to satisfy the HAL or Intercultural Communication requirement.
PORT 201       : This course aims to further develop communication skills in Portuguese and expand knowledge of Lusophone cultural traditions. Specifically, we will focus on oral communication, written communication, listening skills and reading comprehension. To be adequately prepared for the course, students should have successfully completed Portuguese 101 and 102 (or their equivalent). Classes will be taught in Portuguese in order to expose the student to the target language. It is also a goal of the course to create a positive interaction among the students. Group work will be frequent, as well as the use of the students' different background and experience with the language. PARTICULARS: Evaluation is based on daily and active participation, homework, quizzes, compositions, exams, and Portuguese program activities.) PREREQUISITES: Port 102, Port 110, or equivalent (including courses taken during a study abroad program).
DATASCI 496R   : Students with an unpaid internship during the semester may receive course credit for their internship. Students are responsible for securing their own internships and credit enrollment is by application only. Please see our webpage https://quantitative.emory.edu/undergraduate/experiential-learning/internships.html for more details. Permission of the department required.
PORT 212       : Portuguese 212 aims to further develop communication skills in Portuguese and explore issues related to power and social struggle in the contemporary Portuguese speaking world. We will discuss and analyze fictional works, films, music and primary sources, in order to understand and learn how Portuguese speakers have faced challenges such as dictatorships, immigration and emigration, as well as racial, gender and social inequality issues that have been historically present in Lusophone countries. Students will learn to recognize aesthetic constructs, the representation of genre differences and similarities, ideological trends, and historical contexts, as well as formulate responses in Portuguese to the various themes addressed in the different texts and films, both orally and in writing. Students will be required to compose creative and analytical responses to the course materials and will revise their compositions with feedback from their peers and instructor. We will review Portuguese grammar with an emphasis on verbs and their complements (prepositions), pronouns and the nuances of the Portuguese language structure. All classes will be conducted in Portuguese. PREREQUISITES: Port 201 or equivalent (including courses taken during a study abroad program).
THEA 200R      : This course is instructor permission-only. Please reach out to the instructor directly & CC Theater Studies' Academic Department Administrator, Kathy Ly-Nguyen (klynguy@emory.edu), for enrollment permission. Permission of the department required.
PORT 385       : PORT 201 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as AFS 389 6) Title: Lusophone Narrative - Literature and History in the Portuguese Speaking World How do literary works present historical events? How do they shed light on moments of deep change in society? How do they uphold, unveil or even challenge long settled structures of inequality brought about by Portugal's maritime expansion begun in the 1400s? This course invites students to reflect on the relationship between literature and history by examining fictional narratives and historical documents from the Lusophone world (Portugal, Brazil, Angola, Mozambique). In addition to practicing their advanced Portuguese, students will engage with some of the most foundational and interdisciplinary questions in literary studies, that is the relationship between literary (fictional) discourse and the historical past. Students will acquire familiarity with some of the most important literary genres from the time of Portugal's colonial expansion, and then examine the various legacies of the early modern period in contemporary novels written in Brazil, Angola and Mozambique. Students will also think through the proposed questions by analyzing documents about important events in Portugal's and Brazil's history, namely the Battle of Alcácer Quibir and the biggest maroon kingdom, the Quilombo dos Palmares. Readings from the early modern period (16th century) include Bernardim Ribeiro, Luis de Camões, Fernão Mendes Pinto, and from the modern period (20th and 21st centuries) Ana Maria Gonçalves, José Eduardo Agualusa, Mia Couto, Paulina Chiziane. Readings in Portuguese, course taught in Portuguese.
MUS 340        : This course requires MUS 240 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
DATASCI 498RW  : Applications are being accepted at https://forms.office.com/r/miFps5WjMH Capstone project participation is by application and departmental permission. Capstones are only available in the Spring semester; available projects and the number of students per section vary year to year. Student applications open mid-fall semester (usually October). Please see our webpage for more information https://quantitative.emory.edu/undergraduate/experiential-learning/capstones.html Permission of the department required.
THEA 250       : THEA 210 or THEA_OX 210 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite
LING 413W      : (Same as SPAN 413W 1) This course provides a descriptive and critical overview of the linguistic practices of different Spanish-speaking communities in the United States, as well as a methodology for the study of these practices. Students will learn about the linguistics characteristics of the different Spanish varieties spoken by these communities, including phonetic, morphological, syntactic and lexical aspects. Special attention is given to the relationship between language and society, particularly on topics such as ethnic and cultural identity, multilingualism and language policy. The course also presents a theoretical and practical approach to the ethnographic research method. Students will read and analyze studies carried out by different scholars and will design their own research project on the topic of their preference. Special attention is given to ethical principles, for this reason students will need to complete the web-based Collaborative IRB Training Initiative (CITI) Program in the Protection of Human Subjects in Research. Background on general Linguistics is recommended, such as the one provided in Span/Ling 303, Span/Ling 304 or Ling 201.This course meets the sociocultural requirement of the Linguistics Major and can be used as one of the required 400-level courses for the Joint Major in Spanish & Linguistics or for the Major/Minor in Spanish. TEXTS: - Escobar, Anna María and Kim Potowski. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. - Selection of articles available in Canvas. EVALUATION: Evaluation will be based in class participation, weekly assignments, one exam, one research project and five written practices. PRE-REQUISITES: One foundational course, preferably SPAN/LING 303 or SPAN/LING 304.
ISOM 353       : ISOM 351 or ISOM_OX 351 or SPESTUBUS students or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
CHEM 370       : CHEM 204 or CHEM_OX 204 or CHEM 205 or CHEM_OX 205 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Topic: Chemistry and Biology of Peptides.
NRSG 454       : NRSG 453 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Must seek permission from faculty. Student cannot self-register. Registration will be processed by the Office of Education. Permission of the department required.
LING 485       : This course will equip and enable you to contribute to the Emory Voices Project-- a large-scale linguistics project that aims to collect and analyze the speech of Emory undergraduates. We intend to study Emory's linguistic community by interviewing undergraduates at the beginning and end of their time in college. In these interviews, we will target specific linguistic characteristics, inquire about language attitudes, and elicit natural speech. You will learn about the sociolinguistic interview process, develop skills working with linguistic corpora, and study other relevant topics within linguistics to inform your work on the project. This course will also allow students to formulate and address a research question of their choosing. Course is open to students of all years and skill levels. Prior completion of at least one Linguistics course is recommended. Students seeking course enrollment permission, please fill out this brief form: https://forms.gle/qfyY1RUwaurxswKx9. For any questions, reach out alex.martinez@emory.edu. Permission of the department required.
ENVS 250       : QTM 100 or QTM_OX 100 or BUS 350 or BUS_OX 350 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
CHEM 380LW     : CHEM 300L or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ISOM 356       : BBA & SPECSTUBUS students can enroll. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
ENVS 310       : (ENVS 120 or ENVS 130 or ENVS 131 or ENVS_OX 131 or ENVS 140) and (ENVS 221 or ENVS 224 or ENVS 225 or ENVS 226 or ENVS?POLS 227 or ENVS_OX 227) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites. IMPORTANT NOTE: This course does NOT fulfill the Race & Ethnicity GER.
CHEM 392R      : (CHEM 141 or CHEM_OX 141 or CHEM 150 or CHEM_OX 150) and (CHEM 142 or CHEM_OX 142 or CHEM 202 or CHEM_OX 202) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Learning Assistants for Chem 202 Permission of the department required.
ISOM 454       : ISOM 350 or BUS 350 or BUS_OX 350 or MATH_OX 117/117Q or QTM 999XFR or QTM_OX ELEC or SPECSTUBUS students or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
ENVS 331W      : ENVS 222 or ENVS_OX 222 or ENVS 229 or ENVS_OX 229 or ENVS 230 or ENVS_OX 230 or ENVS 233 or ENVS 235 or ENVS 239 or ENVS_OX 239 or ENVS 245 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ARTVIS 205     : ARTVIS 105 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
CHEM 470       : Capstone courses are intended for chemistry seniors who have taken at least two 300-level chemistry electives.
ENVS 352W      : ENVS 120 or ENVS 130 or ENVS 131 or ENVS_OX 131 or ENVS 140 or ENVS 225 or ENVS 227/POLS 227 or ENVS 227W/POLS 227W or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ARTVIS 206R    : ARTVIS 106 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ISOM 456       : BUS 350 or BUS_OX 350 or ISOM 350 as prerequisite. STECSTUBUS student may enroll. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
NRSG 465       : NRSG 464 or equivalent transfer credit as co-requisite (Students must enroll in NRSG 464 first) This section is for Traditional BSN semester 4 students only. Clinical may be scheduled any day not in lecture, including weekends for 12 hours; onsite simulation may be scheduled any day not in lecture except Sundays.
ENVS 360       : ENVS 120 or ENVS 130 or ENVS 131 or ENVS_OX 131 or ENVS 140 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ARTVIS 220     : ARTVIS 120 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ARTVIS 306R    : ARTVIS 206R or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
MATH 112       : This course requires MATH 111 OR MATH_OX111 OR MATH 115 OR MATH 119 OR MATH_OX119 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
ENVS 371       : ENVS 120 or ENVS 130 or ENVS 131 or ENVS_OX 131 or ENVS 140 or (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as BIOL 371 1) (Same as ENVS 371 1) This 2-credit hour lecture course will explore the diverse biomes of the tropics. The focus will be on tropical forests and grasslands, with an emphasis on ecological processes, biodiversity, human impact on the tropics, indigenous peoples, and ethnobotany. Prerequisites: Biology 142 and Biology 142L (for Biology 371). This course is taught by Dr. Larry Wilson (adjunct faculty), is SHARED by the Biology and Environmental Science Departments, and may be taken as elective credit for the biology major. There is also an optional field course/lab associated with this course that travels to Peru during Spring Break (see BIOL 372/ENVS 372).]
ENVS 372       : This course requires ENVS 371 or BIOL 371 as a prerequisite OR permission of instructor. (Same as BIOL 372 1) This 2-credit hour field course is part of the Office of International and Summer Programs (OISP) and will be taught during Spring Break week (March 6-15, 2026) in the Amazon River lowland rainforests of southern Peru (Tambopata Research Station), famous for its huge flocks of colorful Macaws. This field course will give the student a real hands-on rainforest experience, complete with bromeliads, toucans, sloths, and the sounds of the night. Graduating Seniors and students who have previously completed BIOL 371/ENVS 371 have priority for this course. Cost for the trip is approximately $3200 (depending on airfare prices). Permission of instructor is required. This course is taught by Dr. Lawrence Wilson (lwilso3@emory.edu; adjunct faculty), is SHARED by the Biology and Environmental Science Departments, and may be taken as elective and upper-level laboratory credit for the biology major. Biology majors may submit an application to Barbara Shannon at barbara.shannon@emory.edu (and Leah Thomas in ENVS at leah.thomas@emory.edu for ENVS 372). Selected students will be notified and will have additional requirements by OISP. See the OISP website for additional information. Financial Aid scholarships from the Biology Department are available to eligible Biology majors who submit an application for the aid. Permission of the department required.
NRSG 488       : This section is for BSN semester 4 students only. All students must choose one of five courses. Permission of the department required.
MATH 116       : MATH 111 or MATH 111L or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
MATH 210       : MATH 111 or MATH 111L or MATH_OX 111 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ENVS 491       : ENVS 120 or ENVS 130 or ENVS 131 or ENVS_OX 131 or ENVS 140 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Permission of the department required.
MATH 211       : MATH 112 or MATH 112Z or MATH_OX 112 or MATH_OX 112Z or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
MATH 212L      : MATH 112 or MATH_OX 112 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Any student who has completed Calc II is eligible to enroll in Differential Equations and, therefore, in Math 212L. No prior experience in dance or movement is required. Students who have previously taken Math 212 may enroll in Math 212L, but priority will be given to those concurrently enrolled in Math 212, as it is a co-requisite for the lab. To receive a permission code for registration, please contact Math Registration (math-registration@listserv.cc.emory.edu) Permission of the department required.
ECON 201       : (ECON 101 or ECON_OX 101 or FIN 201) and (MATH 111 or MATH_OX 111 or MATH 112 or MATH_OX 112 or MATH 112Z or MATH_OX 112Z or MATH 116) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites.
MATH 221       : MATH 111 or MATH_OX 111 or MATH 112 or MATH_OX 112 or MATH 112Z or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
BIOL 120L      : BIOL 120 or BIOL_OX 120 as Corequisite Students under the old GERs are required to take the Biology 120 Laboratory (BIOL 120L). The laboratory is optional for students under the new GERs.
ENGRD 302W     : (Same as DATASCI 302W 1) (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Juniors and seniors with declared majors or minors offered by the Department of Data and Decision Sciences or the Writing (RWID) Program will receive permission codes for this course prior to the pre-registration period. DATASCI and RWID students must use the provided code to enroll during their assigned registration period. Enrollment will be on a first-come, first-served basis, and once the enrollment cap is reached, the waitlist will be activated automatically. For enrollment in ENGRD 302W 1 only: Non-RWID students may contact ahackne@emory.edu for a permission code after November 15, 2025. Technical Writing for Data Science prepares students to analyze complex information and produce clear, ethical, and reader-centered documents across professional contexts. Through hands-on projects and collaborative practice, students will learn to analyze writing contexts, manage the communication life cycle, and adapt style and format to diverse audiences and global contexts. Assignments across multiple genres such as an archival observation report, an interview transcript, and a formal cover letter will help students develop their written, oral, electronic, and visual communication strategies. Permission of the department required.
NRSG 200       : All nursing pre-reqs courses require department permission to enroll. For Emory SON permission you must email nrsgpermissioninquiries@emory.edu for registration approval and support. Permission of the department required.
PHIL 405W      : Two PHIL courses or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
CHEM 204       : CHEM 203 or CHEM_OX 203 or CHEM 222 or CHEM_OX 222 or CHEM 222Z or CHEM 203Z or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
PHIL 482W      : Two PHIL courses or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. TOPIC: Philosophy of Slavery Description: This course will study various philosophical responses to Elizabeth Anscombe¿s argument that modern philosophy prioritizes duty over the good. We will study such questions as: the relation between agency and moral obligation, reason and freedom, and sensibility versus conviction. Philosophers to be discussed include: Kant, Anscombe, Philippa Foot, G.E. Moore et al.
CHEM 204L      : CHEM 203L or CHEM_OX 203L or CHEM 203ZL or CHEM 222L or CHEM_OX 222L as prerequisite and CHEM 204 or CHEM_OX 204 as co-requisite or equivalent transfer credit.
LING 214       : Before you enroll: Be advised that this class is NOT an introductory Linguistics course. It will be assumed that students are already familiar with the goals of linguistic inquiry and the methods of basic syntactic analysis (trees, categories, constituency tests). If you have not taken Foundations of Linguistics (LING-201/ANT-203), or an equivalent course, you will be required to do significant extra self-instructional work at the beginning of the semester. What we do in this course: Much of the language you hear over the course of a day consists of sentences you have never heard before, and yet you are able to understand them. How is this possible? The principle of compositionality states that the meaning of a sentence is determined by the meanings of its words and the way they are combined. In the first part of this course, students will learn a system for doing just this - combining phrase structure trees and computing the meanings that result, using the formal language of predicate logic to represent sentence meanings. Then, in the second part of the course, we'll focus on utterance meaning - aspects of meaning that go beyond what is shown in the predicate logic. For example, what enables us to understand a sentence like `There's ice cream on your shirt' as a simple informative description in some contexts, as an accusation in others, and as a warning in still others? We'll discuss speech acts, implicature, presupposition and other aspects of utterance meaning as we explore the close relationship between semantics and pragmatics. All required readings will be made available online.
CHEM 205       : (CHEM 203 or CHEM_OX 203 or CHEM 222 or CHEM_OX 222 or CHEM 222Z or CHEM 203Z) and (MATH 111 or MATH_OX 111 or MATH 112 or MATH 112Z or MATH_OX 112) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ENGRD 415      : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) RWID Capstone This capstone course serves as the culmination of your studies in RWID. In this 1-credit seminar, you will return to and revise the web-based portfolio that you started building earlier in the program. Your goal will be to synthesize the work you've done as a writer and learner at Emory - within the minor, and beyond - by curating and showcasing what you consider your best work. As you grapple with how to portray a version of yourself and the commitments you've developed from your experiences, we will take a metadisciplinary and rhetorical approach to this representation. We will reflect on how you have learned to create meaning in your fields and communities, in terms of what you have been taught to value and come to value personally in your scholarship. Moreover, you will practice using writing and speech to show this approach to others who may or may not have the same backgrounds as you do. The course will culminate in an oral "defense" of your portfolio, where you will present what you've created to me, your peers, and others in the Writing Program. Permission of the department required.
ENVS 131       : ENVS 120 or ENVS 130 or ENVS 140 as prerequisite or co-requisite, or equivalent transfer credit. Lecture section is online/asynchronous. ALL LAB SECTIONS ARE IN-PERSON. ENVS 131 is required for ALL ENVS majors. This course does NOT fulfill any General Education Requirements.
GER 102        : This is the second of the two-course sequence of elementary German that explores the roles and group affiliations that contribute to the identity formation of young adults in the United States and the German-speaking world. Specifically, students will examine the following three roles in 102, devoting 4-5 weeks to each: The young adult as (1) a consumer; (2) a traveler/tourist; and (3) a citizen. Students will use a textbook and supplemental materials to acquire the language necessary to communicate meaningfully about each topic. Through this process of examining identity formation, students in this course, together with its prerequisite, German 101, will develop a solid foundation in speaking, writing, reading, and understanding German and life in German-speaking countries.
NRSG 332       : NRSG 331 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Must seek permission from faculty. Student cannot self-register. Registration will be processed by the Office of Education. Permission of the department required.
IDS 390        : This course is designed to help IDS and American studies majors in the Institute for the Liberal Arts (ILA) to develop their senior thesis. During the course of the semester students will learn how to design a strong and compelling academic research project. Students will gather, read, and analyze academic sources related to their intellectual interests and use them to identify a research topic, develop a research question, think about relevant theories, and choose a research method to help answer their question. Students will design a well-organized plan of research, culminating in the submission of their thesis prospectus and the completion of a presentation at the ILA Spring Research Symposium. During the semester students will complete a variety of assignments to familiarize themselves with the research resources available on campus. They will also work on developing their research network, by meeting to discuss their ideas with faculty in the ILA and across campus. As a cohort, students will work together to build a strong community of researchers who support one another through the highs, plateaus, and lows of research. Permission of the department required.
CHEM 205L      : CHEM 203L or CHEM_OX 203L or CHEM 203ZL as prerequisites and CHEM 205 or CHEM_OX 205 as co-requisite or equivalent transfer credit.
LING 303       : (Same as SPAN 303 1) In this course (taught in Spanish), we will explore how diverse pronunciations are produced and organized by Spanish-speakers (including native/heritage and second-language speakers). As part of this, we will compare typical pronunciations of Spanish with those of English, and we will examine how different communities assign different social meanings and values to different pronunciations (for instance, why and in what circumstances do people value positively or negatively pronunciations such as "ello están contento" as opposed to "ellos están contentos"). This semester, we will include a component focusing on how different pronunciations and intonation can contribute to the performance of literary, theatrical and other spoken-language texts/events. TEXT: Tuten, D. N., Tejedo-Herrero, L. F., R. Rao, & H. R. Clarke. 2022. Pronunciaciones del español (Routledge). PARTICULARS: This course is designed for a wide variety of students, including those for whom Spanish is a primary/native or heritage language as well as for those who are learning Spanish as a second language. This is an introductory course in Hispanic Linguistics and therefore no background in Linguistics is required. Span/Ling 303 is a core course for the Spanish and Linguistics Joint Major and a Foundational Course for the Spanish Major and Minor. It counts as an elective or HAL course for other Linguistics majors and minors. EVALUATION is based on attendance/participation, homework assignments, exams, and performance projects. PREREQUISITE: SPAN 212 or an Official Spanish Placement into our Foundational Course level (Span 300-318). Take the online Spanish Placement Exam at http://spanport.emory.edu/home/undergraduate/placement/index.html. For more information on Foundational Courses, please go to www.spanport.emory.edu.
PSYC 499R      : Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Psychology majors only. Credit is variable, 1.00 - 12.00 (For 3.00 hrs/week = 1.00 credit). Students must have consent of faculty member (inside or outside of the department) and agreement on a research, expectations and responsibilities in the lab. Students are required to complete a PSYC 498R/499R Contract with a faculty member or principal investigator detailing their research. Contract is available through Lorenza Houser (lhouser@emory.edu). Please e-mail Ms. Houser to obtain a copy of the contract to complete and sign along with your faculty supervisor and/or principal investigator inside or outside the department before returning it to her. Enrollment in PSYC 499R are done administratively; Ms. Houser will enroll you in directed research herself. For students conducting research outside of the Department of Psychology, the contract must be approved by Dr. Andrew Kazama (akazama@emory.edu) as the department's director of undergraduate research before submitting it to Ms. Houser. Permission of the department required.
GER 192R       : This one-credit conversation class is designed for beginning students who either want to keep up their exposure to German without taking a four-credit class or want additional German language practice outside of their regular German class. Taught by the German Studies Department's Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant, the course focuses primarily on spoken German, but all modalities (speaking, listening, reading, and writing) are covered. The topics for investigation and discussion are culturally significant aspects of the German-speaking world. Success in the course hinges on your active participation and engagement with the course materials and the other class participants. Prerequisite 192: This course will be conducted in German and is open to students who have completed at least one semester of college-level German or the equivalent.
CHEM 300L      : (CHEM 204L or CHEM_OX 204L) and (CHEM 205L or CHEM_OX 205L) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite or co-requisite.
CHEM 322       : (CHEM 204 or CHEM_X 204) and (CHEM 204L or CHEM_OX 204L) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
LING 329       : This course requires CS 171 or CS 171Z or CS_OX 171 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. (Same as CS 329 1 and DATASCI 329 1)
CHEM 327       : (CHEM 203 or CHEM 203Z or CHEM_OX 203) and (CHEM 203L or CHEM 203ZL or CHEM_OX 203L) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
CHEM 334       : (CHEM 205 or CHEM_OX 205) and (PHYS 142 or PHYS_OX 142 or PHYS 152 or PHYS_OX 152) and (MATH 112 or MATH_OX 112 or MATH 210 or MATH_OX 210 or CHEM 270) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
LING 363W      : (Same as ENG 300W 1) Pre-1700 One semester of intensive language study will result in a proficient reading knowledge of the West Saxon dialect (standard Old English) such that we can explore the culture of the Anglo-Saxons and better understand the language we speak today. Selections from heroic and religious poetry and prose will begin with the first known poem in the English language and will also include the Wanderer and Seafarer, the Battle of Maldon, the Dream of the Rood, Ælfric's preface to Genesis, and King Alfred's lament over the faded glory of English learning. Classes consist of prepared translation, short lectures, and discussion. The standard lexicographic and bibliographic tools in Old English will be covered. Some previous foreign language study is desirable but not required; students should be prepared to use a glossary. We will also read Beowulf in translation, as well as selected passages in Old English.
ENVS 240L      : ENVS 240 as prerequisite or co-requisite, or equivalent transfer credit.
CHEM 340       : (CHEM 204 or CHEM_OX 204) and (CHEM 204L or CHEM_OX 204L) and (BIOL 141 or BIOL_OX 141) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites. Students who took BIOL 301, or have transfer credit equivalent to BIOL 301, cannot take this course.
NRSG 402       : NRSG 419 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ISOM 351       : BUS 350 or BUS_OX 350 or ISOM 350 or MATH_OX 117/117Q or QTM 100 or QTM_OX 100 or QTM 110 or QTM_OX 110 or ECON 220 or ECON_OX 220 or MATH 207 or MATH_OX 207/207Q or QTM 999XFR or QTM_OX ELEC or STAT COMPETENCY EXAM or SPECSTUBUS or transfer credit. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
CHEM 343       : (CHEM 204 or CHEM_OX 204) and (CHEM 204L or CHEM_OX 204L) and (CHEM 340 or BIOL 301) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ENVS 242       : This course requires ENVS 241 as a prerequisite OR permission of instructor. Course enrollment permission required. You must be able to attend a weekend long field trip to the GA coast and a 10-day long trip over Spring Break to The Bahamas. Permission of the department required.
GER 392R       : This one-credit conversation class is designed for intermediate to advanced students who either want to keep up their exposure to German without taking a four-credit class or who want additional German language practice outside of their regular German class. Taught by the German Studies Department's Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant, the course focuses primarily on spoken German, but all modalities (speaking, listening, reading, and writing) are covered. The topics for investigation and discussion are culturally significant aspects of the German-speaking world. Success in the course hinges on your active participation and engagement with the course materials and the other class participants. Prerequisite 392: This course will be conducted in German and is open to students who have completed at least three semesters of college-level German or the equivalent.
LING 401W      : Why is language structured the way it is? How and why is it limited in what it can express? Answers to questions such as these usually stem from two opposing views. One focuses on language and meaning as products of how the mind works. The other stresses language as a product of social interaction. In this course, we will consider a series of questions to better understand these two views. Topics will include what the sources of linguistic structure might be; whether (or how much of) language is innate in humans; how language reflects categories and helps us form categories; and to what extent language influences thought. The course is only available to graduating seniors who have declared the following majors or minors: Linguistics, Psych/Ling, Span/Ling, or QSS major w/ concentration in Linguistics. Permission number required to enroll, contact: dbolde2@emory.edu. Required Textbook(s): No textbook required; readings will be available on Canvas. Permission of the department required.
ISOM 352       : BUS 350 as co-requisite or ISOM 350 or MATH_OX 117/117Q or QTM XFR or QTM_OX ELEC as prerequisite or SPECSTUBUS students, or equivalent transfer credit. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
ENVS 247       : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. (Same as BIOL 247 1) (This course provides a broad overview of ecology, ranging from evolutionary ecology to ecosystems ecology. The emphasis of the course is on data interpretation and experimental design in the context of the ecological concepts we are discussing. Students will work in small groups on applying basic ecological principles to data interpretation and experimental design. This course will fulfill the Column C requirement (or elective credit) for the Biology major. There will be three exams plus a cumulative final exam. Students will also be evaluated on class discussions. A separate, optional, 3 credit hour laboratory (Biology 247LW/ENVS 247LW) is associated with this course (in fall semester). (The lab is not required)
CHEM 350       : (CHEM 203 or CHEM 203Z or CHEM_OX 203) and (CHEM 203L or CHEM 203ZL or CHEM_OX 203L) and (CHEM 205 or CHEM_OX 205) and (CHEM 205L or CHEM_OX 205L) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
CS 334         : (CS224 or CS_OX 224) and (CS 253 or CS_OX 253) and (MATH 221 or MATH_OX 221 or MATH 275 or MATH 321) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
BIOL 475       : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. Also offered as IBS 547/548. Location: Calhoun Auditorium (Emory Clinic). This course is for juniors, seniors, and graduate students who may be interested in a basic understanding of the eye. This course will review basic principles and state-of-the-art information on ocular anatomy, embryology, biochemistry, physiology, genetics, immunology, microbiology, pharmacology, and pathology. Prerequisites: Biology 142 and Biology 142L. This course ORIGINATES in the Department of OPHTHALMOLOGY (taught by Dr. Pardue) and may be taken as elective credit for the biology major.
ECON 470       : ECON 320 and (ECON 371 or ECON 372 or ECON 372W or HLTH 370) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as HLTH 470 1)
CS 350         : CS 253 and CS 255 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites.
BIOL 485       : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. (FULL TITLE: Models for Generating Hypotheses in Population and Evolutionary Biology.) This 2-credit hour course will introduce Juniors, Seniors, and interested graduate students to mathematical and computer simulation modeling in biology. The focus will be on the role of models used in developing hypotheses and of designing the tests of these hypotheses with experiments. Empasis would be on using models in population biology, ecology, and evolutionary biology, with particular consideration of bacteria, bacteriophage, and antibiotic treatment, as well as the practical (medical and epidemiological) application of the concepts of population and evolutionary biology. Models about the age and distribution of cancer will also be looked at. Students in this course will learn how to prepare a manuscript and will submit the manuscript to a journal, as co-authors. The class will learn how to use the Berkely Madonna software for the numerical solution to differential equations and Monte Carlo simulations. Prerequisites: Biology 142 + 142L and at least one course in Calculus, preferably Calculus for Biologists.
ECON 480       : ECON 320 & CS 334 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites.
PHYS 445W      : PHYS 253 or PHYS_OX 253 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
CS 370         : CS 253 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
BIOL 495A      : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. First semester of the Biology Honors Program for Senior Biology majors in their last two semesters at Emory. Eligible students will be contacted in the SUMMER (or FALL) and invited to participate in the program. A 3.7 minimum GPA is required for both the Biology major and cumulative. Students accepted into the Honors Program will need to contact Tonya Woolcock at tdavis6@emory.edu to request a permission number for Biology 495A and add the course to their schedule before add/drop/swap ends for the semester. See the Biology Department website for additional information. Prerequisites: Biology 142, 142L, and a declared Biology major. Students graduating in a fall semester should take Biology 495A in the spring semester prior to their graduation semester and Biology 495BW in the fall of their graduating semester. Permission of the department required.
PHYS 461       : PHYS 220 and (PHYS 253 or PHYS_OX 253) and (MATH 212 or MATH_OX 212) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
BIOL 495BW     : This course requires BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L or BIOL_OX142 or BIOL 152 AND BIOL 495A or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. This is the second semester of the Biology Honors Program, for Senior Biology majors in their last semester at Emory. Permission of instructor is required. Contact Tonya Woolcock at tdavis6@emory.edu to request a permission number for Biology 495BW and add the course to your schedule before the add/drop/swap period ends for the semester. This course will fulfill elective and upper-level lab requirements for the Biology major and a writing requirement for the GERs. See the COURSE ATLAS for additional information. Permission of the department required.
CS 385         : Prerequisite: CS 253 Department permission required, please email bnflood@emory.edu. This class focuses on identifying and building interactive systems. This will include how to specify, design, and build user interfaces and systems that enable interactivity. Work will be justified in terms of how technical design choices enable or inhibit the user experience. The course will cover a variety of tools and techniques for creating interactive prototypes and user interfaces, examine their advantages and trade-offs for investigating and enabling user experience, and the related theory and principles for their implementation. Permission of the department required.
PHYS 463       : PHYS 220 or MATH 221 or MATH_OX 221 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as CS: 463 1)
CS 424         : CS 326 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
KRN 202        : Contact bumyongchoi@emory.edu for permission to enroll. Permission of the department required.
CS 441         : CS 253 or CS_OX 253 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
CS 443         : CS 325 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
KRN 302        : For permission to enroll, contact bumyongchoi@emory.edu Permission of the department required.
CS 452         : CS 350 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
KRN 402        : This course requires KRN 401 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. Permission of the department required.
CS 463         : PHYS 220 or MATH 221 or MATH_OX 221 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as PHYS 463 1)
KRN 404        : KRN 402 as prerequisite Permission of the department required.
CS 470         : CS 224 and CS 253 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites.
CS 485         : Prerequisite: CS 334/CS 534 Department permission required, please email bnflood@emory.edu. This course covers recent advances in the area of deep learning on graphs. Topics include: Network Embedding, Graph Neural Networks and their properties, Applications of GNNs, and others. Permission of the department required.
MKT 345        : MKT 340 or SPECSTUBUS students or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
ACT 300        : ACT 200 or ACT_OX 200 or ACT 210 or ACT_OX 210 or SPECSTUBUS students or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites.
ACT 301        : ACT 200 or ACT_OX 200 or ACT 210 or ACT_OX 210 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
BIOL 497R      : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. THIS COURSE DOES NOT COUNT FOR THE BIOLOGY MAJOR. Directed study with a Biology faculty member. Permission of instructor is required. Once permission of instructor is obtained, contact Tonya Woolcock at tdavis6@emory.edu to request a permission number and add the course to your schedule before add/drop/swap ends for the semester. Permission of the department required.
ACT 316        : ACT 200 or ACT_OX 200 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
FILM 107       : FILM 101 or FILM_OX 101 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Class meets at Emory Point, Room 100 This class will be held in the Department of Film and Media's brand new production facility located at Emory Point. Address: 1568 Avenue Pl Ste 140 Atlanta, GA 30329 This class has an Equipment Fee of $125 which grants students access to equipment provided by the department.
MKT 452        : MKT 340 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. SPECSTUBUS students are allowed to enroll. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
BIOL 499R      : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. A two-semester research experience for Biology majors. Students will need to find a research mentor to oversee their research project. Once a mentor is confirmed, students will need to apply for the course. (See the Biology Department website for additional information.) Approved students will receive a permission number from Dr. Gerardo and will need to add the course to their schedule before add/drop/swap ends for the semester. Prerequisites: Biology 142 + 142L and a declared Biology major. Successful completion of two semesters will provide students with four (4) hours of elective credit and will fulfill the upper-level lab requirement for the Biology major. Permission of the department required.
BIOL 212       : (PHYS 151 or PHYS_OX 151) or [(PHYS 141 or PHYS_OX 141) and (MATH 112 or MATH 112Z or MATH_OX 112 or MATH_OX 112Z0] or [(PHYS 141 or PHYS_OX 141) and MATH 116)] or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as PHYS 212 LAB1)
BIOL 236L      : (BIOL 142 or BIOL_OX 142) and BIOL 142L or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites. Permission is required for this course. Students requiring an Anatomy & Physiology course for a post-bac school should contact the PHA (Pre-Health Advising) office for permission to take this course. Students approved by the PHA will be added to the course by the Biology Department during add/drop/swap, space permitting. THIS COURSE DOES NOT COUNT FOR THE BIOLOGY MAJOR IN ANY WAY. This is the first semester of a two-semester course and includes a lecture and a laboratory component. This course examines the interrelationship and integration of the structure and function of the human body on the molecular, cellular, tissue, and organ system levels. Topics include body organization, homeostasis, cytology, histology, and the integumentary, skeletal, muscular, and nervous systems. Textbook will be Anatomy & Physiology: The Unity of Form and Function, by Kenneth S. Saladin (McGraw-Hill). Permission of the department required.
BIOL 247LW     : This course requires BIOL 142, BIOL 142L or BIOL_OX142 AND BIOL/ENVS 247 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. (Same as ENVS 247LW 1) (This is the optional laboratory portion of the Ecology class. Field studies will be conducted in various natural areas in Georgia, including a weekend trip to the mountains. Pre- or corequisite: Biology 247/ENVS 247. This course fulfills elective and upper-level laboratory credit for the biology major and the Writing requirement for the GERs.)
BIOL 300       : This class is for SOPHOMORES, JUNIORS, and SENIORS and has a LECTURE and a DISCUSSION SECTION. This course will prepare you to critically evaluate what you read in the professional and online Medical, Biomedical, Biological, and Ecological literature and will cover a variety of topics. Prerequisites: Biology 142 + 142L. This class may be taken as elective credit for the Biology major.
BIOL 320       : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142WE or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. (Same as PSYC 320 1) This course provides an overview of major research areas in the field of animal behavior. The behavior of animals will be discussed from an evolutionary and comparative perspective. Specific topics include genetic influences on behavior, neuroethology, evolution of sexual reproduction, biological rhythms, communication, courtship and mating strategies, and parental behavior.
BIOL 325       : This course requires PSYC 110 or BIOL 142 or BIOL_OX142 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. (Same as PSYC 325 1) (Following a general introduction to primatology, this course covers recent progress in the growing field of primate social behavior. Topics range from aggression and dominance to affiliation, sex and peaceful coexistence. The evolution of the large brain and remarkable intelligence of primates has been explained as related to the complexity of their societies: survival in such societies requires sophisticated social skills and a thorough understanding of the relationship network. Course segments focus on the motivational and cognitive processes underlying coalition formation, reciprocal exchange of benefits, reconciliation following conflict, and the origin of moral systems. Parallels with human behavior will be discussed.)
BIOL 329       : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142WE or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. This course requires permission of the instructor AND a Laboratory/Field Course fee of $1275.00 (paid to the Biology Department). This lecture and laboratory course emphasizes basic principles of coastal biology, including the distribution and types of coastlines, coastal animals and plants, important ecological and physical processes, and the services, management, and threats for coastal areas (particularly the Georgia coast). The course involves an eight-day laboratory/field trip to St. Simons Island, Georgia and other Georgia Sea Islands during Spring Break, which will require a lab/field course fee. Prerequisites: Biology 142 + 142L AND permission of instructor. Contact Dr. Dave Civitello at david.james.civitello@emory.edu for permission. A $600 NON-REFUNDABLE DEPOSIT (personal check or money order made out to the Emory University Department of Biology) will be required during registration, prior to receiving a permission number to enroll in the course. The remaining balance will be due at the beginning of the Spring semester, before the end of add/drop/swap. Non-payment will result in being dropped from the course. Financial Aid scholarships from the Biology Department are available to eligible students who submit an application for the aid. Contact Barbara Shannon at barbara.shannon@emory.edu for payment information. Permission of the department required.
BIOL 342       : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142, or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Microbes shape the world we live in! Come research fungal microbes and their interactions with the environment. In this course, students will learn techniques necessary for culturing microbes and experimental design. Students will propose a testable question and carry out the experiment. In addition, students will learn aspects of research, such as data analysis and presenting results to other scientists and to the public. We will also discuss how to find further research opportunities that match career goals). Students must also register for the LAB component. Prerequisites: Biology 142 + 142L.
BIOL 345       : ENVS 120 or ENVS 130 or ENVS 131 or ENVS_OX 131 or ENVS 140 or (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as ENVS 345 1)
BIOL 347       : [(BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or BIOL_OX 142X] and (QTM 100 or QTM_OX 100) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
BIOL 348       : (BIOL 142 or BIOL_OX 142) and (CHEM 141 or CHEM_OX 141 or CHEM 150 or CHEM_OX 150) or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. A survey of current topics in neural development and neural basis of behavior. Emphasis is on research work that uses a combination of physiological, genetic, cellular, and molecular techniques to understand neural systems and their evolution and development. This course will fulfill elective credit for the Biology major. Prerequisites: Biology 142, 142L and Chemistry 150.
BIOL 370       : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. Varies by section
BIOL 373W      : ENVS 232 or ENVS_OX 232 or ENVS 236 or ENVS 240 or ENVS 247 or BIOL 247 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as ENVS 373W 1)
BIOL 415       : [(BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142] and [BIOL 223 or BIOL 250 or BIOL 264 or BIOL_OX 264] or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites. In this course, you will learn intriguing complex genetic, epigenetic, and immunological events underlying cancer and current strategies to fight cancer. Prerequisites: Biology 142 + 142L.
BIOL 460       : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142WE or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. (Same as NBB 460 1) (This course explores our current understanding of the mechanisms that regulate development of the nervous system. Topics covered include neurogenesis, axon guidance, programmed cell death, and synapse formation.)
BIOL_OX 141L   : BIOL_OX 141 or BIOL_OX 141 co-requisite, or AP 4/5- IB 5/ 6/ 7 in BIOL, or transfer credit. Students with AP/IB credits for lecture have to enroll in the BIOL_OX 141L. Students who don't have credit for lecture, must enroll in both lecture and lab. Must also enroll in BIOL_OX 141 lecture
BIOL_OX 142WE  : (BIOL 141 and BIOL 141L) or (BIOL_OX 141 and BIOL_OX 141L) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Students with AP/IB credit for BIOL 141/BIOL_OX 141 will have to take BIOL 141L or BIOL_OX 141L. Must also enroll in W 10:00AM lab section
BIOL_OX 212    : Cross-listed with PHYS_OX 212. Prerequisites: PHYS_OX 141 or 151 and MATH_OX 112 or equivalent transfer credit. Must enroll in BIOL_OX 212 lab
BIOL_OX 340E   : BIOL_OX 141 as prerequisite and (BIOL_OX 142 or BIOL 242) as prerequisite/corequisite or equivalent transfer credit. Permission of the department required.
BIOL_OX 386R   : (BIOL 141 or BIOL_OX 141) and (BIOL 142 or BIOL_OX 142) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This class counts as an upper-level biology laboratory and an elective credit towards the Biology major when taken for a letter grade. Topic: Molecular Ecology with Lab In this course with lab, you will learn genomic techniques with practical applications in Molecular Ecology related to conservation and population genetics, community ecology and trophic webs, reproductive strategies and kin selection, and microbial diversity. You will gain hands-on experience with laboratory and data analysis approaches used by molecular ecologists while approaching diverse scientific questions. Throughout the semester, you will collaboratively design and carry out a team-independent research project on one of these topics. Out of class time will be required to complete experiments. Must enroll in 386 at 2:30PM
BIOL_OX 397R   : (Permission of Instructor Required Prior to Enrollment) Permission of the department required.
BIOL_OX 399RE  : ORS (Permission of Instructor Required Prior to Enrollment) Permission of the department required.
BUS 300        : This section is reserved for students in the BBA program. Varies by section
BUS 399R       : This section is reserved for students in the BBA program. Pre-requisite: MKT 340 Building Solutions with AI is a hands-on class in which students will work in teams to develop an AI-powered product/service. No coding experience needed! Student teams will be constructed to ensure that all teams have complementary skillsets. Over the course of the semester students will ideate and conduct market research, build a prototype and refine it through user testing. The structure of the course will combine: - Discussion of AI applications for consumers and businesses - Data collection and analysis for the purposes of deriving user insights - Product development to address a business or societal problem, or unmet consumer need Each week, student teams will share their progress and be introduced to appropriate business concepts. The final deliverable will be a software solution that will be evaluated by the faculty and outside judges. LEARNING OBJECTIVES - Identify opportunities in the marketplace to develop AI solutions - Identify opportunities to improve business operations through the deployment of AI - Understand the role of market research in product development - Collect user feedback to improve the solution - Work collaboratively with teammates who have different skillsets and roles throughout the product development process - Build a working prototype using ¿vibe coding¿ platforms
CBSC 370A      : (Same as POLS 370A 1, SOC 370A 1, ENVS 370A 1) This course examines how communities of all sizes and types (e.g., neighborhoods, cities, metropolitan regions) solve important public problems. Our focus will be on understanding how, why, and to what effects, collaborative, community-based, cross-sector (public-private-nonprofit) initiatives are crafted. The course addresses several tensions and issues that affect the practice of community building, and the processes through which community builders attempt to overcome these obstacles to foster social change comprehensively (e.g., reduce poverty and promote economic mobility) as well as within specific policy domains such as education, economic development, workforce development, health, and the environment, among others. We will explore the course material through lectures, individual and group exercises, and the examination of a variety of case studies of comprehensive community initiatives launched over the past 30 years. This course is a requirement for participation in Emory's Community Building and Social Change Fellows Program, though students do not need to commit to participating in the CBSC program to enroll. For more information on the CBSC program see https://www.emorycbsc.com/ or contact the CBSC program director, Kate Grace, at kdgrace@emory.edu. Permission of the department required.
CHEM 202Z      : (CHEM 150 and CHEM 150L) or AP score of 4 or higher or IB score of 5 or higher required. This course is reserved for freshmen entering with AP, IB, or Chem 150 transfer credit.
CHEM 202ZL     : CHEM 202Z as co-requisite. Students must enroll in CHEM 202Z first. This course is only for freshmen entering with AP, IB, or other Chem 150 transfer credit and who are taking CHEM 202Z.
CHEM 203L      : CHEM 202L or CHEM_OX 202L or CHEM 202ZL as prerequisite and CHEM 203 or CHEM_OX 203 as co-requisite, or equivalent transfer credit.
CHEM 328       : (CHEM 150 or CHEM_OX 150) and (PHYS 141 or PHYS_OX 141 or PHYS 151 or PHYS_OX 151) and (PHYS 142 or PHYS_OX 142 or PHYS 152 or PHYS_OX 152) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites. (Same as ENVS 328 1)
CHEM 333       : (CHEM 204 or CHEM_OX 204) and (CHEM 204L or CHEM_OX 204L) and (CHEM 205 or CHEM_OX 205) and (CHEM 205L or CHEM_OX 205L) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
CHEM 335LW     : (CHEM 205 or CHEM_OX 205) and (CHEM 205L or CHEM_OX 205L) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
CHEM 371LW     : CHEM 300L or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Special Topic: Chemistry of Color (LW)
CHEM_OX 150    : CHEM_OX 150L co-requisite. Students must enroll in CHEM_OX 150 and CHEM_OX 150L together. If not enrolled in both lecture and lab, students will be dropped at the end of add/drop/swap. Must enroll in CHEM_OX 150L. Completion of OCCP by Jan. 27 is 3% of grade.
CHEM_OX 150L   : Must enroll in CHEM_OX 150 lecture
CHEM_OX 151    : Pre-Requisite: AP Chemistry score of 4 or 5, or IB Chemistry score of 5, 6, or 7 Co-requisite: CHEM_OX 202 (or 202Q) This course is open first to students who are also enrolled in CHEM_OX 202 for fall 2025. It is not intended for students who have previously completed CHEM_OX 202. If spots remain open, those planning to take CHEM_OX 202 the following semester may enroll.
CHEM_OX 202    : CHEM_OX 150 and CHEM_OX 150L prerequisites & CHEM_OX 202L co-requisite. Students must enroll in CHEM_OX 202 and CHEM_OX 202L together. If not enrolled in both lecture and lab, students will be dropped at the end of add/drop/swap. Must enroll in CHEM_OX 202L
CHEM_OX 202L   : CHEM_OX 150 & CHEM_OX 150L prerequisites or equivalent transfer credit. Students must enroll in CHEM_OX 202 and CHEM_OX 202L together. If not enrolled in both lecture and lab, students will be dropped at the end of add/drop/swap. Must enroll in CHEM_OX 202 lecture
CHEM_OX 203    : CHEM_OX 202 and CHEM_OX 202L prerequisites & CHEM_OX 203L co-requisite. Students must enroll in CHEM_OX 203 and CHEM_OX 203L together. If not enrolled in both lecture and lab, students will be dropped at the end of add/drop/swap. Must enroll in CHEM_OX 203L
CHEM_OX 203L   : CHEM_OX 202 & CHEM_OX 202L prerequisites, or equivalent transfer credit. Students must enroll in CHEM_OX 203 and CHEM_OX 203L together. If not enrolled in both lecture and lab, students will be dropped at the end of add/drop/swap. Must enroll in CHEM_OX 203 lecture
CHEM_OX 204    : CHEM_OX 203 & CHEM_OX 203L prerequisites & CHEM 204L co-requisite. Students must enroll in CHEM_OX 204 and CHEM_OX 204L together. If not enrolled in both lecture and lab, students will be dropped at the end of add/drop/swap. Must enroll in CHEM_OX 204L
CHEM_OX 204L   : CHEM_OX 203 and CHEM_OX 203L as prerequisites or equivalent transfer credit. Students must enroll in CHEM_OX 204 and CHEM_OX 204L together. If not enrolled in both lecture and lab, students will be dropped at the end of add/drop/swap. Must enroll in CHEM_OX 204L
CHEM_OX 205    : [(CHEM_OX 203 & CHEM_OX 203L) or (CHEM 203 & CHEM 203L)] and (MATH_OX 111 or MATH 111) prereq. & CHEM_OX 205L co-req. Enroll in CHEM_OX 205 & CHEM_OX 205L together. If not enrolled in both, students will be dropped at the end of add/drop/swap. Must enroll in CHEM_OX 205L.
CHEM_OX 205L   : [(CHEM_OX 203 & CHEM_OX 203L) or (CHEM 203 & CHEM 203L)] and (MATH_OX 111 or MATH 111) prerequisites. Students must enroll in CHEM_OX 205 and CHEM_OX 205L together. If not enrolled in lecture and lab, students will be dropped at the end of add/drop/swap. Must enroll in CHEM_OX 205 lecture
CHEM_OX 261    : CHEM_OX 202 or CHEM 202 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite or co-requisite.
CHN 303W       : Please contact Dr. Hong Li at hli01@emory.edu for permission to enroll. Permission of the department required.
CHN_OX 203     : CHN 103 as prerequisite, or placement recommendation, or equivalent transfer credit.
HIST 343       : This course explores the history of snow sports, especially skiing & snowboarding. This class is not only for history majors or athletes, but also for business students, & anyone interested in environmental history, sports history, economic history, or the histories of gender & race. We explore the creation of skiing, the expansion of leisure sports, the development of ski schools & ski patrols, environmental issues, avalanche control, the history of the land & indigenous peoples, snow fashions, & ski industry. Students who have never taken a history course & first-year students are welcome. Each student will do a short final research project. Assignments: Readings, videos, pop quizzes, & a short research project. Readings: All online. No book purchases required. The course fulfills the requirements for the Sustainability Minor. This course fulfills the following History Major Concentrations: General Studies in History (Modern), United States History (Modern); European History (Modern); Law, Economics, & Human Rights (Modern).
HIST 387RW     : (Same ENGCW 385RW 1, AAS 387RW 1, AMST 387RW 1) (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Application required. If accepted, you must attend the first class session to remain enrolled. Class description and application form are available on the Creative Writing Program website: https://creativewriting.emory.edu/academics/applications.html Please email nora.lewis@emory.edu if you have any questions. Permission of the department required.
HIST 448W      : Any JS or MESAS course or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as JS 448W 1, MESAS 448W 1, and POLS 448W 1) (Ever since the emergence of the Zionist movement in the late nineteenth century, the political future of the land known as both Israel and Palestine has been the subject of fierce international debate. This seminar will examine how, exactly, this land has been discussed in international forums and in various countries, as well as how leaders of both Israelis and Palestinians have worked to chart a foreign policy for their respective peoples. Students will be given an overview of Israeli foreign policy and Palestinian attempts at global outreach since 1948 before the course moves on to explore the politics of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in various regions of the world. Course requirements include regular preparation and participation, facilitating/co-leading classroom discussions, ten brief response essays, and a final original research paper. Most research papers will focus on Palestinian or Israeli foreign relations with another country, or the role of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in another country or region's politics, either historically or today. While there is no fixed prerequisite for the course, students should either have some background in the politics and history of Israel or the Middle East or have previous studied another country or region that they plan to examine in their research) (This is not an introductory course on the conflict. Those interested in an introductory course should enroll in the larger "Israeli-Palestinian Conflict" course to be taught in Spring 2026)
HIST_OX 101WE  : Students are required to participate in 3 field trips to locations in Newton County that provide "essential services". Each field trip will be approximately 2-3 hours and will take place outside of class time. Transportation will be provided.
HLTH 220       : BIOL 141 or BIOL_OX 141 or CHEM 141 or CHEM_OX 141 or CHEM 150 or CHEM_OX 150 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This course will introduce students to the field of nutrition science, with emphases on recommended intakes and food sources of essential nutrients and other dietary compounds, and the functions and interactions of dietary components and how they affect human physiology. We will also discuss dietary patterns that promote health, including the nature of evidence that underlies dietary recommendations for the public. This will be explored through lectures, discussion, and activities.
HLTH 300R      : HLTH 200 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Permission required prior to enrollment. Meets synchronously on Mondays; Students will also be enrolled in an accompanying discussion section. This course provides students the opportunity to become involved in a personalized approach to health and well-being by sharing with peers strategic approaches for the implementation of a healthy lifestyle. Peer Health Partners will enroll in one section of HLTH 300R and will facilitate one section of HLTH 100 during fall semester. (Prerequisite: HLTH 200) Permission of the department required.
HLTH 317       : BIOL 142 or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Microorganisms living in and on our bodies outnumber our human cells. Sometimes considered "the forgotten organ" , this collection of bacteria, viruses, and single-cell eukaryotes is crucial for our health. We will examine the vital functions provided by the microbiome, as well as the conditions under which the microbiome is associated with disease. Areas of focus will include obesity, insulin resistance, inflammatory bowel disease, asthma, antibiotic resistance, and more. (Prerequisite: BIOL 142)
HLTH 320       : HLTH 220 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite This course will explore current evidence relating diet, nutrition, and the food environment to promoting health and preventing disease. The focus will be on digestive health, obesity type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, bone health, and cancer. Students will learn about diet and related factors that increase or decrease risk of these conditions, evaluate evidence, and compare intervention strategies. (Prerequisite: HLTH 220)
HLTH 352       : HLTH 250 or HLTH_OX 250 or ANT 205 or ANTH_OX 205 or SOC 250 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. We will apply community-based primary health care methods to advance more equitable solutions for a maternal-newborn global health challenges. Teams will measure the disparity and look "back" to identify causes before looking "forward" to propose more equitable solutions for future change. (Prerequisite: HLTH 250)
HLTH 353       : HLTH 250 or HLTH_OX 250 or ANT 205 or ANTH_OX 205 or SOC 250 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This course is a seminar style course that focuses on the interplay of major global health actors/players, the politics of global health, and the power dynamics that infuse the interplay. The course will concentrate on key global health players over the last 25 years including public, multilateral, private and philanthropic players. The landscape of global health was framed by the post-World War 2 set of organizations and institutions. Over the last 25 years and particularly since the millennium the landscape has fundamentally changed. This course will explore the dynamics of this change, the influence of respective global health players in crafting the global health agenda and the relative power of each player over time. A key focus of this course will interrogate the question of whether and how the priorities and politics of the big global health players influence decisions taken at community, sub-national and national levels in low and middle income countries. The course will require a significant amount of reading, critique, discussion and analysis. (HLTH 250 is a Prerequisite for this course)
HLTH 374       : Drug discovery will be explored across bench to bedside discovery processes. We will learn about small molecule synthesis, repurposing of existing agents, preclinical validation, and the pathway to human studies and eventual FDA approval.
HLTH 381W      : Writing clearly about health and medicine is an essential skill for aspiring scientists, policymakers, science communicators, and physicians and health professionals, as well as for future journalists planning to work in any medium. Communicating health and science requires learning to identify new developments, conduct an interview, craft an argument, and organize a narrative, while translating professional jargon into everyday language. This class, taught by a professional journalist, trains you in journalism's norms and standards: speed, thoroughness, accuracy, novelty and evidentiary rigor. Students read new scientific papers and compare them to news coverage, while interrogating the storytelling strategies of different journalistic genres. Guest speakers include text journalists working in short and long forms, audio and video creators, data specialists and interview strategists. Assignments include writing short and long pieces in a range of genres; completed work may be published in the CSHH online journal, Exploring Health. (Application and permission of instructor; no prerequisites.) Permission of the department required.
HLTH 408       : HLTH 207 or equivalent transfer credits as prerequisites. Health problems have many complex causes. After mapping the causes of a problem from a specific context (with research, theory & epidemiology), learners will create a proposal with real-world solutions. The proposal will be converted into a persuasive presentation to request funding for the work. (Prerequisites: HLTH 207)
HLTH 411       : ANT 231 or HLTH 210 and BIOL 141 and BIOL 142 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This seminar course will examine the evidence documenting that the immune system, inflammation, regenerative potential and oxygen status are fundamental processes underlying human health. While modern medicine focuses on organ-specific diseases, a changing paradigm led by Emory's Predictive Health scholars identifies that many diseases are outcomes of common causes and identifies specific interventions that can lead to pre-emption of chronic diseases. (Prerequisites: HLTH 210 and BIOL 142)
HLTH 469       : (Same as SPAN 409 1, LACS 409 1, LING 409 1) This course examines how particular narratives about the body, health, and wellbeing are constructed and circulated in Latin America. Drawing on a number of classic and contemporary texts, we consider both the specificity of local medical narratives and the processes, which increasingly link these systems of knowledge and practice. The course queries how presupposed notions of language, communication, narrative, media, and the like provide implicit foundations for producing and naturalizing notions of health, disease, medicine, and the body and their associated practices and materialities. Topics covered include narrative production; local theories of disease causation and healing efficacy; narratives of embodiment; medicalization; structural violence; the meanings and effects of new medical technologies; and global health.) Texts: Provided by instructor. Prerequisites: At least one foundational course (SPAN 300- 318) or permission from instructor
IDS 489        : This course fulfills the ILA's graduate-level-or-equivalent course requirement for all ILA Honors candidates and is required of them unless they enroll in a graduate-level course in fall semester of senior year. Other interested students may be admitted with permission; please contact instructors. Two interweaving threads define our inquiry. First, we grapple with overarching classical discussions of power--e.g. Michel Foucault, Louis Althusser, Paulo Freire, bell hooks, Sara Ruddick [OTHERS?]. Second, we will examine critiques of academia across the past century, a study that will also paint an history of the changes in both mission and social significance of higher education through the same period. Authors in this second section of the course will Allan Bloom, Martha Nussbaum, William Deresiewicz, Andrew Delbanco, Gayatri Spivak, Henry A. Giroux, and (more) bell hooks. We will use the theoretical and historical understanding of academia gleaned from these authors to engage several distinguished ILA alumni visitors to our class, whose professional work lends critical perspective on our topic, particularly perspective on our own institution--Emory--from which students will soon be graduating. (Class will meet in Callaway, room S415.)
IDS_OX 216E    : ENG_OX 185 or ENG_OX 186 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Instructor permission required to enroll Global Learning course: additional fee required; financial aid available. Experiential learning credit is earned through participation in a 7-14 day travel component and its assignments, alongside regular on-campus coursework and class meetings. Orientations and activities related to the global learning program are required outside of class meeting time and administered through Canvas. Admission to course requires separate application process; the global learning program provides more information about the travel component, itinerary, physical activity levels, and more. Students offered enrollment will receive a permission number and additional instructions. Permission of the department required.
ENG 262W       : In the white imagination, Black desire is occupied by two opposing stereotypes: for white liberals, Blacks simply and only desire freedom from racist oppression; for white supremacists, Blacks do not think beyond their desire for simple physical pleasures. Quite obviously, the reality is considerably more complicated. This class will take you through a century of canonical African American writers exploring Black desire, from Race Men and Club Women extolling the virtues of racial uplift to satirists gleefully calling attention to our very human foibles, and all those in between, puzzling over the complexity of being both human and symbol, hero and villain in the world's imagination. Through mini-lectures, small group analysis and full class discussions, we will take on the provocative yet rewarding challenges these essays and novels bequeath to us. To what degree does our social identity as African American restrict, mediate or perhaps heighten our desires? When our safety, livelihoods, and dignity are always under assault, how do our desires protect us or expose us further? Course work will include 10 written reader reactions, one midterm paper of 1250 words and one final paper of 2500 words. Attendance and participation in discussion also required. (SAME AAS 262W-1)
ENG 332W       : (Topic - Victorian Literature: Deviant Creatures ) (Many of today's most fraught social issues share at their core a central question: who counts as a full-fledged "person" , with all the rights and privileges that accompany that status? Nineteenth-century British writers were intensely interested in this question, at a time when the British Empire was engaged in a project of defining the ideal citizen and distinguishing that person from its other subjects. One critical medium for creating and challenging conceptions of personhood was literature. In this course, we will explore the tangled problem of who counts as a "person" , then and now, by examining Victorian literature's encounters with all manner of deviant creatures: monsters, matriarchs, sex workers, and children; the enslaved, the laboring, and the queer; a Galapagos tortoise and a beloved wombat. We will intersperse poetry, non-fiction prose, and novels with (gentle) introductions to the critical and theoretical perspectives that will help us ask good questions of our readings, questions about race, empire, gender, sexuality, class, and ecology. Ultimately, we will return to our framing query: in what ways do we remain in the shadow of the nineteenth century's definition of personhood, and what are the consequences of this inheritance for us now?) Please note: If you wish to add this course after the first two classes have occurred, you must first contact the instructor to discuss missed work. Permission of the department required.
ENG 356W       : In this course, we will read and study a range of Indigenous-authored youth literature, from picture books to YA novels. We will ground our study of these texts in principles of relational accountability in several ways. We will partner with students and faculty at the College of the Muscogee Nation participating in this course with us. We will take a required field trip to the Indigenous Celebration at the Ocmulgee Mounds National Historic Park in Macon, GA. We will engage with the Muscogee art exbibit at the Carlos Museum. We will host class visits with Indigenous authors, scholars, and educators. We will practice regular self-reflection, examining how our personal experiences, communities, and places inform our learning. We will also consider the literary texts we study in relationship to pressing political, social, and cultural concerns of Indigenous peoples. Finally, through the course projects we develop, we will not only deepen our own knowledge of Indigenous youth literature, but we will also share that knowledge beyond our class, contributing to more accurate, respectful, and enjoyable learning about Indigenous nations in our local communities.
ENG 384RW      : (Topic:Read, Think, Write! Intro. to Literary Theory and Criticism) (In read, think, write we will study the various ways in which scholars of literature instruct their readers on how to interpret literature, argue about its value, and the role it plays in society. Learning about each of the theoretical frameworks will allow you to not only learn about the ways scholars have tried to interpret texts, but also to critically read literature using the methods they have developed. We will address questions such as: how to read a literary text from a Feminist, Queer, Marxist or post-colonial perspective? We will learn about how these schools of thought emerged, some of the most prominent theorists, and the central questions they ask when critically analyzing a text. Student will choose literary pieces to perform different styles of critical interpretations from different literary theories. The goal is to provide you with a foundation for understanding how literature is discussed in scholarly and critical discourse.) Required Texts: -Vincent Leitch, et.al. The Norton Anthology of Theory and Criticism -Wesley Brown and Amy Ling, Imagining America.
ENG 489W       : The Archive or "house of record" is a space and place in which knowledge is recovered, preserved, valued, and produced. Much of the work on archival theory to date has been in interrogating the role of archives in state formation and in the construction of national histories. This course shifts focus to the materiality of the documents, objects, buildings, and people constitutive of the archive. In what ways are poems and stories entangled with institutions of culture? Why do literary texts take the material forms that they do? How might exploring an author's correspondence, drafts, periodical publications, or limited editions affect how we interpret their work? This course focuses on African and African diaspora, Irish, and postcolonial writers whose literary archives are held in Emory's Stuart A. Rose Library or who have left traces in its collections. Expanding our sense of what constitutes an archive, we will consider the ways in which institutions have the power to privilege and marginalize, as well as preserve and promote. Writers may include Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, Agha Shahid Ali, Lucille Clifton, Lorna Goodison, Seamus Heaney, Nuala Ní Dhomhnaill (in translation), Christopher Okigbo, Natasha Trethewey, and W. B. Yeats. This course, intended for advanced students in English and/or Creative Writing, runs concurrently with a graduate seminar.
ENGCW 372RW    : (Same as THEA 372RW 1) (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Application required. If accepted, you must attend the first class session to remain enrolled. Class description and application form are available on the Creative Writing Program website: https://creativewriting.emory.edu/academics/applications.html Please email nora.lewis@emory.edu if you have any questions. The instructor will be incoming Playwriting Fellow, PHANESIA PHAREL: https://creativewriting.emory.edu/people/bios/pharel-phan%C3%A9sia.html Application required. If accepted, you must attend the first class session to remain enrolled. Class description and application form are available on the Creative Writing Program website: https://creativewriting.emory.edu/academics/applications.html Plays are a human truth told in time. That truth is then brought to an audience to react, decide, reflect, and revolt. Plays are a singular democratic practice and gift in the human experience. Every single one of us has brilliant plays inside us, stories that connect others and help people feel alive, but how do we tell them? How do you figure out and access your truth - but more importantly, how can you make your truth legible to the outside world? In Intermediate Playwriting, we will be learning various elements of the craft, voyaging over a century worth of American playwrights to learn different tools and techniques, but more importantly for you to access what excites you and what themes you'd like your work to be in conversation with. In breaking down literary texts and exploring theatrical history, I often pose the central questions: What makes a play a play? What is theatricality? By investigating the foundations of story and identifying the elements that make a text theatrical, students develop a deeper understanding of both the craft and the medium. We will do this over a series of multiple exercises, and you will write a one-act play. Permission of the department required.
ENGCW 385RW    : (Same as AAS 387RW 1, AMST 387RW 1, HIST 387RW 1) (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Application required. If accepted, you must attend the first class session to remain enrolled. Class description and application form are available on the Creative Writing Program website: https://creativewriting.emory.edu/academics/applications.html Please email nora.lewis@emory.edu if you have any questions. In the years between 1945 and 1968, untold numbers of American citizens were targeted for death because of their race, beliefs, or civil rights work - and in some cases merely because of what they drove, how they spoke, or the ever-shifting lines of racial etiquette they crossed. In many cases, their murders were inadequately investigated or prosecuted, their stories left untold, and the crimes against their humanity never punished. The Georgia Civil Rights Cold Cases Project at Emory University is both a class and an ongoing historical and journalistic exploration of the Jim Crow South through the prism of unsolved or unpunished civil rights-era murders in Georgia. Using primary evidence including FBI records, NAACP files, old newspaper clippings, court transcripts, and personal archives students come to see and understand history from the inside out. Student essays, grounded in secondary readings that provide broader context, will be aimed at the project website, coldcases.emory.edu. Students also may become engaged in helping research a new season of the podcast, Buried Truths, based on a case we'll be examining in class. Students should budget for photocopying. Permission of the department required.
ENGRD 123R     : (Freshmen Only) (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Students who speak English as an additional language will research, analyze, and practice English grammar to develop their knowledge of form, meaning, and usage in a communicative context. This is an English Language Learner (ELL) course. Contact Jane O'Connor (jcoconn@emory.edu) for permission to enroll. Permission of the department required.
ENGRD 202      : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) This practicum course is designed as a companion to first semester experience as a Writing Center tutor. Tutors will have a chance to reflect on their tutoring experiences and discuss tutoring strategies. They will also learn about writing in different disciplines, promoting transfer of skills, and tutoring no n-native speakers of English. And they will conduct academic and practical research related to their tutoring work. Contact ahackne@emory.edu for a permission number. Permission of the department required.
ENGRD 349W     : This is an online course. Emory College Online summer courses have required synchronous/live sessions every week. Students must be available to sign into and virtually attend the course online during those times (noted as the course meeting times- all times listed are local to Atlanta).Each course will also involve significant asynchronous material that you access on your own time in addition to standard amounts of readings and course assignments. Students should plan to spend 15-20 hours/week on this course. Please also be aware that faculty will begin corresponding with students during Week Zero of the course (one week before the official start date of the course), and that some interaction with the course may be required at that time. Students should begin checking the Canvas course site regularly one week prior to the official start of the term.
ENG_OX 185     : Placement exam required, Please visit the First-Year Writing page on Inside Oxford to read about the course and this semester's themes: https://inside.oxford.emory.edu/academics/writing-program/first-year-writing.html
ENG_OX 186     : Placement exam required, Please visit the link to view detailed theme: https://inside.oxford.emory.edu/academics/writing-program/first-year-writing.html. Directed self-placement (DSP) recommendation for ENG_OX 186 required prior to enrollment. The DSP can be located in the Emory Essentials Canvas Course. Students who enroll during first-year registration or Add/Drop/Swap without a DSP placement recommendation for English 186 may have this course removed from their schedule. Contact Academic Affairs at rmbarre@emory.edu with questions about enrollment/unenrollment.
ENVS 227       : ENVS 120 or ENVS 130 or ENVS 131 or ENVS_OX 131 or ENVS 140 or POLS 111 or POLS_OX 111 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as POLS 227 1)
ENVS 247LW     : This course requires BIOL 142, BIOL 142L or BIOL_OX142 AND BIOL/ENVS 247 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. (Same as BIOL 247LW 1) (This is the optional laboratory portion of the Ecology class. Field studies will be conducted in various natural areas in Georgia, including a weekend trip to the mountains. Pre- or corequisite: Biology 247/ENVS 247. This course fulfills elective and upper-level laboratory credit for the biology major and the Writing requirement for the GERs.)
ENVS 255W      : ENVS 131 or ENVS_OX 131 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ENVS 260       : QTM 100 or QTM_OX 100 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ENVS 320       : (ENVS 120 or ENVS 130 or ENVS 131 or ENVS_OX 131 or ENVS 140) and (ENVS 232 or ENVS 240 or ENVS 247/BIOL 247) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites. For spring 2025, ENVS 320 will count towards the SSP Intermediate Breadth for ENVS majors
ENVS 328       : (CHEM 150 or CHEM_OX 150) and (PHYS 141 or PHYS_OX 141 or PHYS 151 or PHYS_OX 151) and (PHYS 142 or PHYS_OX 142 or PHYS 152 or PHYS_OX 152) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites. (Same as CHEM 328 1)
ENVS 342       : ENVS 120 or ENVS 130 or ENVS 131 or ENVS_OX 131 or ENVS 140 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. There is a required weekend field trip to one of the GA barrier islands. Likely the last weekend in February. No additional costs to the student.
ENVS 345       : ENVS 120 or ENVS 130 or ENVS 131 or ENVS_OX 131 or ENVS 140 or (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as BIOL 345 1)
ENVS 370A      : (Same as POLS 370A 1, SOC 370A 1, CBSC 370A 1) This course examines how communities of all sizes and types (e.g., neighborhoods, cities, metropolitan regions) solve important public problems. Our focus will be on understanding how, why, and to what effects, collaborative, community-based, cross-sector (public-private-nonprofit) initiatives are crafted. The course addresses several tensions and issues that affect the practice of community building, and the processes through which community builders attempt to overcome these obstacles to foster social change comprehensively (e.g., reduce poverty and promote economic mobility) as well as within specific policy domains such as education, economic development, workforce development, health, and the environment, among others. We will explore the course material through lectures, individual and group exercises, and the examination of a variety of case studies of comprehensive community initiatives launched over the past 30 years. This course is a requirement for participation in Emory's Community Building and Social Change Fellows Program, though students do not need to commit to participating in the CBSC program to enroll. For more information on the CBSC program see https://www.emorycbsc.com/ or contact the CBSC program director, Kate Grace, at kdgrace@emory.edu. Permission of the department required.
ENVS 373W      : ENVS 232 or ENVS_OX 232 or ENVS 236 or ENVS 240 or ENVS 247 or BIOL 247 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ENVS 420       : ENVS 120 or ENVS 130 or ENVS 131 or ENVS_OX 131 or ENVS 140 or (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This course is best suited for SR's and JR's in ENVS; permission of instructor is required if you are a sophomore in ENVS
ENVS 426       : ENVS 326 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Permission of the department required.
CPLT 489W      : (Same as PHIL 404W 1) German Romanticism This course provides an overview of some of the key figures and core concerns of the movement known as German Romanticism. Part of what makes German Romanticism unique is its blending of the philosophical and the poetic/literary in its quest for a language and form adequate to, or at least resonant with, what it seeks to present: the "Absolute." In this course, we will focus on the themes of system & fragment, romantic irony, the native/foreign opposition, conceptions of the feminine, and the problem of evil, reading Schlegel, Tieck, Hölderlin, Günderrode, Novalis, and Schelling, on the one hand, each supplemented by a reading from Blanchot, De Man, Heidegger, Wolf, Lacoue-Labarthe and Nancy, and Zizek, respectively, on the other. As such, this course hopes to show the ongoing relevance of German Romanticism for contemporary thought. Assignments Participation and Attendance Online Discussion Mid-term paper Final Paper Required Texts Schlegel, Friedrich. Philosophical Fragments. Ed. and trans. Peter Firchow. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1991. Hölderlin, Friedrich. Selected Poetry. Ed. and trans. David Constantine. England: Bloodaxe Books, 1994. Günderrode, Karoline von. Poetic Fragments. Ed. and trans. Anna C. Ezekiel. Albany, NY: State University of New York Press, 2016. Novalis. Philosophical Writings. Ed. and trans. Stoljahr. Albany, NY: State University of New York Press, 1995. Schelling, Friedrich. Philosophical Investigations into the Nature of Human Freedom. Ed. and trans. Jeff Love and Johannes Schmidt. Albany, NY: State University of New York Press, 2005. Note: additional texts provided electronically on course reserves.
CPLT 497R      : This course is permission-only. Please contact Kathy Ly-Nguyen (klynguy@emory.edu) for inquiries. Permission of the department required.
CS 371W        : CS 325 or CS 334 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites.
CS 444         : CS 334 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
CS_OX 170      : Must enroll in Friday 10-10:50 AM lab section.
CS_OX 171      : CS 170 or CS_OX 170 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
CS_OX 224      : CS 170 or CS_OX 170 as prerequisite and MATH 111 or MATH_OX 111 or MATH 112 or MATH_OX 112 as co-requisite or equivalent transfer credit.
DANC 250       : DANCE 150R or PE_OX 151 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Open only to declared dance majors and minors. Please contact Greg Catellier, gcatell@emory.edu, for a permission number. Permission of the department required.
DANC 322R      : DANC 222R or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
DANC 429W      : (Same as THEA 429W 1) (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) This course is open to declared dance and theater majors and minors in their junior or senior year. Please contact Sally Radell, sradell@emory.edu for a permission number. Permission of the department required.
DANC_OX 300RE  : Please contact the instructor to arrange an entrance interview to discuss training, experience, and expectations. (Permission of Instructor Required Prior to Enrollment) Permission of the department required.
ECON 333       : (ECON 112 or ECON_OX 112) and (ECON 220 or ECON_OX 220 or MATH 361) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ECON 366W      : This course requires ECON _OX 100 or ECON 101 or ECON_OX 101 or FIN 201 AND ECON 112 or ECON_OX112 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. (Same as AFS 366W 1)
ECON 385W      : This course requires ECON _OX 100 or ECON 101 or ECON_OX 101 or FIN 201 AND ECON 112 or ECON_OX112 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. Using multimodal forms of communication, this course exposes students to the complexities of the modern economy and the role of money laundering [ML] as the crime that makes all crimes (as a business enterprise) possible. It explores the "criminal enterprise value chain" and the money laundering "value proposition", highlighting the interaction between illicit financial flows [IFF], ML, and the shadow (parallel) economy hidden in plain sight. It also exemplifies the multi-disciplinary features of economic science.
ECON 405       : This course requires ECON 201 AND ECON 220 or MATH 207 or MATH_OX207 or MATH 361 or MATH 362 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
ECON 415       : (ECON 101 or ECON_OX 101 or FIN 201) and (ECON 112 or ECON_OX 112) and (ECON 201 or ECON_OX 201) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ECON 422       : ECON 320 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ECON 434       : This course requires ECON 112 OR ECON_OX112 AND ECON 201 OR ECON_OX201 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
ECON 496RW     : (ECON 201 or ECON_OX 201) and (ECON 212 or ECON_OX 212) or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. Permission of the department required.
ECON 499RW     : (ECON 201 or ECON_OX 201 or ECON 212 or ECON_OX 212) and (ECON 220 or ECON_OX 220 or MATH 361) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites. Permission of the department required.
ECON_OX 112    : Econ_OX 101, Econ 101 as prerequisite
ECON_OX 212    : ECON_OX 101 and ECON_OX 112 and MATH_OX 111 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites.
ECON_OX 220    : ECON 101 & MATH 111 or equivalent course or transfer credit required as prerequisites.
ECON_OX 385R   : Econ 112_OX prerequisite (Permission of Instructor Required Prior to Enrollment) Permission of the department required.
ECON_OX 385RE  : Econ 112_OX prerequisite (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Permission of the department required.
POLS 448W      : Any JS or MESAS course or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as JS 448W 1, HIST 448W 1, and MESAS 448W 1) (Ever since the emergence of the Zionist movement in the late nineteenth century, the political future of the land known as both Israel and Palestine has been the subject of fierce international debate. This seminar will examine how, exactly, this land has been discussed in international forums and in various countries, as well as how leaders of both Israelis and Palestinians have worked to chart a foreign policy for their respective peoples. Students will be given an overview of Israeli foreign policy and Palestinian attempts at global outreach since 1948 before the course moves on to explore the politics of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in various regions of the world. Course requirements include regular preparation and participation, facilitating/co-leading classroom discussions, ten brief response essays, and a final original research paper. Most research papers will focus on Palestinian or Israeli foreign relations with another country, or the role of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in another country or region's politics, either historically or today. While there is no fixed prerequisite for the course, students should either have some background in the politics and history of Israel or the Middle East or have previous studied another country or region that they plan to examine in their research) (This is not an introductory course on the conflict. Those interested in an introductory course should enroll in the larger "Israeli-Palestinian Conflict" course to be taught in Spring 2026)
POLS_OX 320    : POLS 110 or POLS_OX 110 or POLS 120 or POLS_OX 120 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
POLS_OX 354    : Any POLS 100 or POLS_OX 100 level course as prerequisite.
POLS_OX 385R   : Topic: (Dis)order in the Courts: Politics of the U.S. Judiciary Students should have completed POLS 100 or POLS 111 as prerequisite This course explores the behavior and decision-making processes of courts and judges within the United States. We will look at the organization of the courts, as well as examine the key actors (judges, lawyers, interests, the public, congress, executive branch) and processes (appeals, trials, elections, appointments) that make up these judicial systems.
PORT 185       : (Same as SPAN 185 1) (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) (Community engagement for residents of Casa Émory (Theme Housing). This course involves weekly meetings and discussion, planning of community events, and participation in other group activities. Fall Casa Émory residents are usually selected in February, but spaces sometimes become available at other times. Please contact the instructor for more information. This class meets in Casa Émory.) Permission of the department required.
PORT 202       : CONTENT: This course aims to further develop communication skills in Portuguese and expand knowledge of Lusophone cultural traditions. We will review and refine our Portuguese grammar and vocabulary while engaging creatively and critically with short stories, films, songs, and other materials from Brazil, Angola, Mozambique, and Portugal. REQUIRED TEXTBOOK: Contextos: Curso Intermediário de Português, print or electronic edition. PARTICULARS: Evaluation is based on daily and active participation, homework, written and oral compositions, quizzes, exams, and Portuguese program activities. PREREQUISITES: Port 201 or equivalent.
PORT 302W      : PORT 201 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as AFS 302W 1) Course Description: This course primarily examines literary and cinematographic artistic productions of the five African countries whose official language is Portuguese: Angola, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, and São Tomé and Príncipe. Despite their geographic isolation, these five nations share literary and cultural traditions defined in part by a common legacy of empire, colonialism, racism, multilingualism, and war. The selected literary, historical, and cultural texts serve as vehicles for a deeper understanding of Lusophone African cultures and history. We will discuss how historical, political, and cultural processes have shaped notions of race and ethnicity in these nations. Throughout the course, we will discuss struggles for independence, legacies of colonialism, processes of nation-building, appropriation of the Portuguese language as a way to construct national identity, role of race, ethnicity, and reconciliation in nation formation, changes in political ideologies, contrasts of urban vs. rural life, and women's quest for visibility and power. The authors and filmmakers we will study include, but are not limited to, Alda do Espírito Santo, Flora Gomes, Germano Almeida, Pepetela, Manuel Rui, José Eduardo Agualusa, Lilia Momplé, and Mia Couto.
PORT 303W      : PORT 201 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This course will explore the concept of authorship through the analysis of Brazilian life narratives by a diverse array of writers: literary authors, individuals who took part in significant events of Brazilian history, and ordinary citizens. We will discuss definitions of autobiographies and other types of writing about the self, such as diaries, testimonies, memoirs, and fictional autobiographies. We will focus on the representation of lived experiences in the context of larger social issues in Brazilian history and culture. Readings include works written in different historical periods and from diverse perspectives in terms of gender, class, and race.
PSYC 200W      : (PSYC 110 or PSYC_OX 110 or PSYC 111 or PSYC_OX 111) and (PSYC 230 or QTM 100 or QTM_OX 100) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Students enrolled in PSYC 200W (lecture) must also enroll in a required lab.
PSYC 320       : PSYC 110 or PSYC_OX 110 or BIOL 141 or BIOL_OX 141 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as BIOL 320 1) This course provides an overview of major research areas in the field of animal behavior. The behavior of animals will be discussed from an evolutionary and comparative perspective. Specific topics include genetic influences on behavior, neuroethology, evolution of sexual reproduction, biological rhythms, communication, courtship and mating strategies, and parental behavior.
PSYC 324       : (PSYC 110 or PSYC_OX 110 or NBB 201 or ANT 200 or NBB_OX 201 or NBB 301 or BIOL 360) and (QTM 100 or QTM_OX 100) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as NBB 370 2) Why do humans sleep and dream? How does the brain control these and related states of consciousness? What are the implications of being a "night owl" versus a "morning person"? Is lucid dreaming a brain state and can you learn to do it? Do animals sleep differently and do they dream like we do? Do classic and more recent theories of dreaming make sense in terms of what we can measure? Does sleep really form memories and regulate our emotions? Does chronic sleep deprivation matter for mind and body? Can you perform complex actions in your sleep without knowing it? This is a survey course presenting a biologically informed approach to sleep and dreaming under both typical and pathological conditions. Format will be primarily lecture, but discussion and active exercises will also be used. Readings: Selections from academic and general audience books, scientific journals, and online sources. Assignment/ Exam Details: Several exams and quizzes throughout the semester; sleep log and dream journal projects; one short reflection paper. Class participation also counts.
PSYC 325       : This course requires PSYC 110 or BIOL 142 or BIOL_OX142 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. (Same as BIOL 325 1) (Following a general introduction to primatology, this course covers recent progress in the growing field of primate social behavior. Topics range from aggression and dominance to affiliation, sex and peaceful coexistence. The evolution of the large brain and remarkable intelligence of primates has been explained as related to the complexity of their societies: survival in such societies requires sophisticated social skills and a thorough understanding of the relationship network. Course segments focus on the motivational and cognitive processes underlying coalition formation, reciprocal exchange of benefits, reconciliation following conflict, and the origin of moral systems. Parallels with human behavior will be discussed.)
PSYC 331       : This course requires QTM100 equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite Prior completion of PSYC 110, or 111, or AP/IB credit in psychology.
PSYC 473W      : This seminar will provide a comprehensive overview of autism spectrum disorders (ASD), including the clinical and epidemiological features of ASD, how to detect, diagnose, and treat the disorder, and etiological factors associated with ASD. The course will follow a translational approach to bridging scientific research and clinical practice. Guest lectures by clinical and research faculty from Emory University and the Marcus Autism Center will range from social neuroscience and genetics to experimental paradigms for screening and detection, to the neurodevelopment of the disorder throughout the lifespan. Readings will include a collection of articles and chapters on ASD that elucidate the features of autism from both historic and current perspectives. In addition to reading assignments, course assignments will include active classroom discussion, a term paper that involves literature review and critical thinking, and reflection papers on practicum experiences. Students will receive direct experience with individuals with ASD through supervised clinical practicum placements at the Marcus Autism Center for 3 hours/week (observation only). Marcus Autism Center is one of the country's leading centers for clinical care and scientific research of ASD. Students interested in enrolling in this course should have taken at least one of the following prerequisite courses: Child Psychopathology, Abnormal Psychology, Child Development, Cognitive Neuroscience, or related course. Permission from instructors is required. Students interested in enrolling in this course who have met the prerequisite requirements of Statistics, Methods, and either Child Psychopathology, Abnormal Psychology, Child Development, Cognitive Neuroscience, or a related course are asked to send, by email, a one-page maximum paper that includes responses to the following questions: 1. Why are you interested in autism and what are your experiences with autism? 2. What are your professional interests and future goals? 3. What would you like to achieve most from taking this seminar? Please prepare your responses as a word document and send as an email attachment to cheryl.klaiman@emory.edu by October 31, 2025. Permission of the department required.
PSYC 474R      : Prior completion of PSYC 110, OR PSYC 111, OR AP/IB credit in psychology. Juniors and Seniors ONLY. For permission, please e-mail the instructor. Permission of the department required.
PSYC 495A      : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment). Students enrolling in Psychology Honors Program must have a cumulative (overall) and major GPA of 3.70 for both. For more information, please visit: https://psychology.emory.edu/home/undergraduate/honors.html. Permission of the department required.
PSYC_OX 210    : This course requires Psyc_ox 110, Psyc_ox 111 or equivalent transfer/test credit as prerequisite.
PSYC_OX 223    : Prior coursework in college-level psychology, biology, or chemistry strongly recommended but not required.
PSYC_OX 225    : PSYC 110 or PSYC_OX 110 or PSYC 111 or PSYC_OX 111 or FILM 101 or FILM_OX 101 or FILM 102 or FILM_OX 102 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This is a hybrid class (some in person, some online). This class is cross-listed with FILM_OX 225. Instructor will share schedule of in-person meetings.
QTM 100        : If you are registering for lab QTM 100-LAB 1 you must enroll in lecture section QTM 100-1. It is not possible to enroll in a lab section that is not linked to your lecture or vice versa.
QTM 185        : Explore how data analytics is revolutionizing sports, from player performance to business outcomes. No programming experience is required, though basic Excel skills are helpful. The seminar culminates in a group project where students analyze real-world sports data.
QTM 190        : (Freshmen Seminar - Limited to First Year Students Only) (Feminism isn't only about women, nor is feminism only for women. Feminism is about power, about who has it and who doesn't, and in today's world, data is power too. As twenty-first century citizens, we have witnessed the power of data to create communities, advance research, and expose injustice. But we have also seen the power of data be used to discriminate, police, and surveil. This course will draw on the past several decades of intersectional feminist theory and activism in order to identify models for challenging differentials of power in data science, as well as methods of using data science to work towards justice. Class meetings will be split between discussions of theoretical readings and explorations of data-scientific methods. Over the course of the semester, students will develop original research projects that intervene into issues of inequality and work towards justice. They will also produce final papers that document the results of their research.Participating students should have some familiarity with Python or a willingness to learn.)
QTM 302W       : (Same as ENGRD 302W 1) (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) (Go here to request a permission code: https://forms.office.com/r/2uiiNAgySW. Questions? Contact Sadie Hannans at shanna9@emory.edu.) (Technical Writing for Data Science - In this writing-intensive course, we will practice the effective and ethical communication of specialized technical knowledge and quantitative data. Because data are information given order, we will consider their arrangement and re-arrangement as rhetoric. We will introduce rhetorical analysis as a model for understanding how quantitative data can be interpreted and conveyed for multiple audiences that range from professional researchers to the lay public. Guided by this knowledge, you will exercise strategies for communicating via the text, speech, and visual conventions that are integral to preparing "technical" genres such as research reports, research translations, informative and persuasive infographics, instructions, and data repositories. We will adapt these genres and their conventions for our course goals that center collaboration, transparency, and reproducibility, while emphasizing the methodological questions to ask when bringing new purposes to data prepared by others, as well as whom to ask, and how. As you gain comfort with thinking of writing and analysis as intertwined practices of exploratory inquiry, we will focus especially on how these practices shape the social impacts of our data-driven narratives.) Permission of the department required.
QTM 398R       : This course is for TA positions for QTM courses besides QTM 100. You must apply and be accepted in order to enroll. An application can be submitted at https://forms.office.com/r/341wsY0pq6. Permission of the department required.
QTM 465        : (QTM 220 or ECON 320) and( QTM 151 or QTM_OX 151) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites.
QTM 496R       : This is the course number for students receiving QTM credit hours for their quantitative intern experience. Securing an appropriate internship and completing the relevant application form prior to the deadline is the responsibility of the student. See this page for additional information: https://quantitative.emory.edu/opportunities/internships.html Permission of the department required.
QTM 498R       : QTM 220 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Permission of the department required.
QTM 499R       : This is the course number of students receiving QTM credit hours for their research fellowship. The fellowship program is highly selective and students should identify a faculty advisor for the semester prior to applying. Additional information about the Research Fellowship program can be found here: https://quantitative.emory.edu/opportunities/undergraduate-research.html Permission of the department required.
REL 371        : REL 250 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Complete Topic: Perspectives in Law and Religion Seminar: Sanctuary and Immigration This course satisfies the Religion major requirement: - Theme. Permission Required Prior to Enrollment. To request permission to register, contact Prof. Wei Wu wei.wu@emory.edu Law school schedule: Th 2pm-4:30pm LAW 831A emphasizes the production of scholarly writing in the form of a seminar paper. To support the success of undergraduate students enrolled in the course, an additional writing workshop component is included for undergraduate students. Undergraduate students enrolled in the cross-listed course number REL 371 for LAW 831A will meet with the instructor for 30 minutes at the conclusion of each class to discuss expectations, best practices, and strategies for scholarly research and writing. Graduate and professional students enrolled in LAW831A are also invited to join the discussion. For this reason, while LAW 831A is scheduled from 2pm - 4pm on Thursdays, the cross-listed course number will be scheduled from 2pm - 4:30pm. In recent years there has been much attention on the idea of sanctuary as a form of protection for immigrants and refugees threatened with deportation both among religious communities and municipalities. These movements have proven controversial and efforts are presently underway to undermine the ability of both religious communities and sanctuary jurisdictions to offer protection to immigrants and refugees. This seminar will examine the idea of sanctuary from its origins in ancient and medieval religious practices, through the sanctuary movement of the 1980s, and the advent of sanctuary jurisdictions. The seminar will also examine asylum law and its connections with the idea of sanctuary, recent policy decisions to allow immigration enforcement actions in religious spaces, and the application of religious free exercise protections to persons charged with illegal actions taken in support of immigrants and refugees. Students will write a seminar paper engaging broadly with the concepts of sanctuary, protection, and migration. Pre- or Co-Requisite: None Final Assessment: Paper/Project Permission of the department required.
REL_OX 170RW   : No pre-requisite required. This course explores the contributions of the theologian, mystic, and often-overlooked Civil Rights hero Howard Thurman on how people can work to establish, build, and extend community. Thurman, who led the first African Americans to meet with Gandhi in India, was a mentor to many Civil Rights leaders, and his classic book, Jesus and the Disinherited, served as an inspiration to them. After an examination of Thurman's life and thought, the course will focus on his interpretations of Jesus's Prodigal Son and Good Samaritan parables, because they illustrate Thurman's understanding of how to (re)establish community. In brief, Thurman's mysticism, its relationship with social change, and his practice of using the fine arts to raise one's spiritual consciousness and foster community, encourage a "sympathetic understanding" of other human beings.
ISOM 453       : ISOM 351 as prerequisite. STECSTUBUS student may enroll. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
ISOM 499R      : BBA & SPECSTUBUS students can enroll. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program. In businesses, as projects become more complex and project teams become more diverse in expertise and geographical location, fully one-third of projects fail and another third complete well below expectations. This course gives you a working knowledge of project creation and management planning, helping you plan and complete future projects on time, within budget, and with the expected deliverables. Students should have taken or is concurrently taking ISOM 351. Some basic familiarity with MS Excel (the Excel toolbox) also helps
ITAL 201       : ITAL 201 LANGUAGE AND CULTURE, INTERMEDIARY LEVEL 1 (Prof. Porcarelli / MW 10:00am-11:15am in person; F 10:00-10:50am online synchronous). Content: This course is a continuation of the Elementary Italian sequence, and it is for students who have already completed ITAL 102 or equivalent. During the semester Students will acquire cross-cultural competency and an intermediate language level proficiency in Italian through a variety of tasks practicing speaking, writing, listening and reading in cultural context. This hybrid course will meet three times per week: M-W in person and F synchronously online. Assessment: Weekly assignments, tests and quizzes, oral presentations and in-class writing assignments. Prerequisites: Italian 102 or instructor's approval
ITAL 301W      : ITAL 301W-1 Pathways to Fluency (3 credits). (Prof. Ristaino / MW 11:30am-12:45pm ). For students who have completed the ITAL201-202 sequence or have received permission from the DUS to enroll in the class. Course Goals: Deepening of grammatical skills, integrated conversation, composition, and reading. Content: This course is designed to assist advanced students in Italian Studies in fully developing their Italian language skills while exploring the culture, which permeates the language. Thus, in addition to their continuing work in grammar and emphasis on writing, students will focus on the sequential study of Italian civilization: art, history, literature and politics, through the 19th century. It fulfills Continuing communication requirement. Assessment: The final grade is based on weekly assignments, mid-term exam, oral presentation and final paper. Prerequisites: I for students who have completed the ITAL201-202 sequence or have received permission from the DUS to enroll in the class.
JPN 201        : JPN 102 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This class will meet in person TTh with additional materials to be completed asynchronously.
JPN 401        : JPN 302 or JPN 302W or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
JS 273         : (Same as REL 270 4) This course satisfies the Religion major requirement:- Tradition-Judaism, Theme. "They tried to kill us. We won. Let's eat." In this widely repeated joke about Jewish holidays, the American Jewish comedian Alan King highlighted the importance of food in Jewish culture. In this seminar course, students will explore Jewish civilization through a focus on Jewish foodways: what Jews eat and don't eat, and why; how various Jewish identities are connected with food; the role of food (and drink) in celebration and mourning; how Jews have adopted and adapted foods in their global dispersion and in the modern State of Israel; Jewish contributions to non-Jewish food cultures. While some basic knowledge of Judaism and Jewish culture will be helpful, no such prior knowledge is strictly required. Students will engage with the work of the course from diverse knowledge backgrounds and identities (Jewish and non-Jewish).
JS 448W        : Any JS or MESAS course or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as HIST 448W 1, MESAS 448W 1, and POLS 448W 1) (Ever since the emergence of the Zionist movement in the late nineteenth century, the political future of the land known as both Israel and Palestine has been the subject of fierce international debate. This seminar will examine how, exactly, this land has been discussed in international forums and in various countries, as well as how leaders of both Israelis and Palestinians have worked to chart a foreign policy for their respective peoples. Students will be given an overview of Israeli foreign policy and Palestinian attempts at global outreach since 1948 before the course moves on to explore the politics of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in various regions of the world. Course requirements include regular preparation and participation, facilitating/co-leading classroom discussions, ten brief response essays, and a final original research paper. Most research papers will focus on Palestinian or Israeli foreign relations with another country, or the role of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in another country or region's politics, either historically or today. While there is no fixed prerequisite for the course, students should either have some background in the politics and history of Israel or the Middle East or have previous studied another country or region that they plan to examine in their research) This is not an introductory course on the conflict. Those interested in an introductory course should enroll in the larger "Israeli-Palestinian Conflict" course to be taught in Spring 2026
KRN 227W       : All materials in English. No prior knowledge of Korea is required.
KRN 301        : For permission to enroll, please contact Dr. Bumyong Choi at bumyongchoi@emory.edu. Permission of the department required.
KRN 383        : (Same as CPLT 369 2) All materials in English. No prior knowledge of Korea is required.
KRN 403        : KRN 402 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. For permission to enroll, please contact Dr. Bumyong Choi at bumyongchoi@emory.edu. Permission of the department required.
LACS 409       : (Same as SPAN 409 1, LING 409 1, HLTH 469 1) This course examines how particular narratives about the body, health, and wellbeing are constructed and circulated in Latin America. Drawing on a number of classic and contemporary texts, we consider both the specificity of local medical narratives and the processes, which increasingly link these systems of knowledge and practice. The course queries how presupposed notions of language, communication, narrative, media, and the like provide implicit foundations for producing and naturalizing notions of health, disease, medicine, and the body and their associated practices and materialities. Topics covered include narrative production; local theories of disease causation and healing efficacy; narratives of embodiment; medicalization; structural violence; the meanings and effects of new medical technologies; and global health.) Texts: Provided by instructor. Prerequisites: At least one foundational course (SPAN 300- 318) or permission from instructor
LACS 490R      : (Same as SPAN 485 1) This course explores the intersection of patriarchy, racism, and violence in 21st-century Latin American film. Students will examine how various family formats are portrayed on film, and to what extent they construe, challenge, and/or otherwise reproduce influential concepts (such as care, work, motherhood, childhood, decency, masculinity, or promiscuity) across gender, racial, and/or class-based lines. In examining these issues, we will look at how People of Color, Women, Children, and members of the LGBTQ+ collective bear the brunt of abuse and generalized violence brought against them due to the sheer fact that they dare to exist. We will also explore the concept of patriarchy paying attention to the many traits that turn masculinity in particular, and cisheteronormativity in general, (as well as subtle forms of white supremacy-ism) into vigilance vectors bent on building "the normal". In analyzing narrative depictions that address the aforementioned forms of inequality, the class will discuss to what extent State-sponsored forms of violence manufacture hegemony, neutralizing and destroying any detectable "deviance" from a desideratum for docile and malleable citizens that remains under constant (de)construction. EVALUATION: Participation in class, written critical responses, an oral presentation, and a final research essay. PREREQUISITE: At least one foundational course (SPAN 300-318W) or permission from the instructor.
LAT_OX 201W    : LAT_OX 102 or LAT 102 or LAT_OX 111 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
LING 212W      : LING 201 or LING_OX 201 or ANT 203 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. What makes a word a word, as opposed to a phrase or sentence? What are the basic principles that determine how words, phrases and sentences are formed cross-linguistically? We will cover some well-known concepts in syntactic theory, including constituency, category, dependent clauses, argument structure, anaphora, wh-questions and other kinds of displacement, and see how they are analyzed in a generative grammar framework. We will periodically face the question `How are words different from sentences?' and in the second part of the course we will examine this question in-depth by looking at some problematic cases in English and other languages. Students will develop the vocabulary and problem-solving techniques that linguists use for morphosyntactic analysis: recognizing patterns in linguistic data, testing hypotheses, applying diagnostic tools, and advancing arguments and counterarguments. Required Textbook(s): All assigned readings will be online. Prerequisite: Foundations of Linguistics (LING 201, LING_OX 201 or ANT 203), or equivalent course with permission of instructor.
LING 242       : (Same as ANT 285 2) Students in this course will be exposed to a diverse range of the world's languages, and will acquire the tools and vocabulary to analyze them. We will study language classification and historical relationships, typology and universals, sound and structural features, and writing systems, covering the major geographic regions of the world. Students will find out about such non-English phenomena as vowel harmony, click consonants, noun incorporation, and ergative-absolutive case. There will also be readings and discussions on related issues, including the theory of universal grammar, the relationship between language and culture, and the notion of creole exceptionalism. All required readings will be made available online.
LING 328       : Prerequisite: Linguistics 201 (or equivalent) or instructor consent is required for this course. Change is constant in all (living) languages, in all times and places. This course explores this important phenomenon from the perspectives of historical linguistics and sociolinguistics. We will begin by surveying diverse types of change that affect sounds, grammar, and lexical meaning. We will then explore how we can know about languages and changes of the past (for instance, the Comparative Method). We will conclude by examining a range of responses to a key question of sociolinguistics: how and why do changes occur when and where they do? Particulars: Grades will be based on a combination of participation, homework/preparation, and four take-home exams. Students interested in carrying out a research project in historical linguistics or historical sociolinguistics should speak with the instructor about enrolling concurrently or subsequently in Ling 497R.
LING 409       : (Same as SPAN 409 1, LACS 409 1, HLTH 469 1) This course examines how particular narratives about the body, health, and wellbeing are constructed and circulated in Latin America. Drawing on a number of classic and contemporary texts, we consider both the specificity of local medical narratives and the processes, which increasingly link these systems of knowledge and practice. The course queries how presupposed notions of language, communication, narrative, media, and the like provide implicit foundations for producing and naturalizing notions of health, disease, medicine, and the body and their associated practices and materialities. Topics covered include narrative production; local theories of disease causation and healing efficacy; narratives of embodiment; medicalization; structural violence; the meanings and effects of new medical technologies; and global health.) Texts: Provided by instructor. Prerequisites: At least one foundational course (SPAN 300- 318) or permission from instructor
LING 430R      : LING 201 or ANT 203 or LING_OX 201 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites.
LING 446W      : (Same as SOC 446W 1, DATASCI 446W 1) The course deals with new tools of analysis and visualization of text data. It is a 4-credits course, fulfilling the writing requirement with extensive weekly writing. The course does NOT require any prerequisites or prior knowledge of computational tools. Freshmen are not allowed to register. Text corpora will be assigned for analysis but students are welcome to use their own texts (e,g., newspaper articles, books, blogs). The course is based on a set of specialized Natural Language Processing tools (NLP), written in Python, designed for the analysis of small/large corpora of text. The tools come with an easy-to-use Graphical User Interface (GUI). From sentence splitter, to tokenizer, lemmatizer, parser with its Part-of-Speech tags (POSTAG), Dependency Relations (DEPREL), Named Entity Recognition (NER), semantic trees, sentence complexity and text readability, noun and verb analysis, n-grams viewer, sentiment analysis, topic modelling, extraction of SVOs (Subject-Verb-Object), and shape of stories, word embeddings (Word2Vec) you will learn the language of Natural Language Processing (NLP). The course also embeds tools of data visualization as word clouds, Excel-type charts, network graphs, and Geographic Information System (GIS) maps. The course uses freeware software exclusively. The course has no required books.
LING 497R      : (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) (Topic: Emory Voices Project ) Permission of the department required.
LING 498R      : We'll discuss short works of fiction that deal with some of the big questions in linguistics: What makes language unique? What makes it not so unique? What does language tell us about the human mind? What is its role in the human experience? Sci-fi helps us imagine possibilities that might not otherwise occur to us, adding nuance to our thinking on these big questions. Each week there will be an assigned short story, novella, novel excerpt or film to read or watch ahead of time. Grading will be based on participation (including some discussion-leading), weekly informal reading responses or quizzes, and a final interview/conversation about a selected novel. All required readings will be made available for free. Pre- or co-requisite: at least one other LING course, or permission of instructor. Students who have already taken this class aren't eligible to enroll for credit, but may be allowed to audit (email Dr. Pak about this). Permission of the department required.
LTL_OX 201E    : LTL_OX 200 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Permission of Instructor Required Prior to Enrollment) Permission of the department required.
MATH 112Z      : MATH AP/AB or IB credits or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. First-year students only (there are NO EXCEPTIONS). This class is for freshmen who have earned a 4 or 5 on the AP AB exam, or a 5, 6 or 7 on the IB HL exam. Topics include: techniques of integration, exponential and logarithm functions, sequences and series, and polar coordinates. Please email scores to MATH-APSCORES@LISTSERV.CC.EMORY.EDU. Please include in your email which course and section you would like to enroll. Permission of the department required.
MUS 384        : 1) The MUS 347 pre-requisite is in the process of being removed, so any students interested in learning electronic music through hands-on performing and working with electronic instruments are encouraged to reach out to Dr. Mirza about taking this course. 2) Fall 2025 we will feature our second collaboration with dancers in. T. Lang's Movement Improvisation II course at Spelman College, making music and performing together with the dancers. Permission of the department required.
MUS 443R       : (Same as THEA 443R 1) Permission of the department required.
NBB 361W       : BIOL 360/NBB301 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
NBB 460        : (BIOL 142 and BIOL 142L) or BIOL_OX 142WE or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. (Same as BIOL 460 1) (This course explores our current understanding of the mechanisms that regulate development of the nervous system. Topics covered include neurogenesis, axon guidance, programmed cell death, and synapse formation.)
NBB_OX 202     : (BIOL 141 and BIOL 141L) or BIOL_OX 141 or PSYC 110 or PSYC_OX 110 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites.
NBB_OX 270R    : BIOL 141L or BIOL_OX 141L or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. An introduction to the development of the nervous system. Covers the field of developmental neurobiology from neural induction to the modification of neuronal connections in the adult nervous system and uses a variety of model organisms to demonstrate the rules by which nervous systems are created.
NRSG 201       : All nursing pre-reqs courses require department permission to enroll. For Emory SON permission you must email nrsgpermissioninquiries@emory.edu for registration approval and support. Online asynchronous. Permission of the department required.
NRSG 205       : All nursing pre-reqs courses require department permission to enroll. For Emory SON permission you must email nrsgpermissioninquiries@emory.edu for registration approval and support. Online asynchronous Permission of the department required.
NRSG 326       : NRSG 310 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This section is for traditional BSN semester 2 students only.
NRSG 331       : Faculty will assign. Students cannot self-register. Registration will be processed by the Office of Education staff. Permission of the department required.
NRSG 335       : Emory College students are welcome and encouraged to enroll. This course meets the race and ethnicity GER and will count for History major and minor credit. This course is in the Arts and Social Justice program for the Fall 2025 semester. Students will have the opportunity to work with an Atlanta artist and explore social justice issues relevant to the course topic. This class is full with a long waitlist but may change during the fall 2025 add/drop/swap period. To be added to the waitlist please contact nrsgpermissioninquiries@emory.edu .
NRSG 409       : NRSG 301 and NRSG 302 and NRSG 363 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites. This section is for traditional BSN semester 3 students only.
NRSG 410       : NRSG 301 and NRSG 302 and NRSG 363 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites. This section is for traditional BSN semester 3 students only. Clinical may be scheduled any day not in lecture, including weekends for 12 hours; onsite simulation may be scheduled any day not in lecture except Sundays.
NRSG 414       : NRSG 301 and NRSG 302 and NRSG 301 and NRSG 302 and NRSG 363 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites. This section is for traditional BSN semester 3 students only. Clinical may be scheduled any day not in lecture, including weekends for 12 hours; onsite simulation may be scheduled any day not in lecture except Sundays.
NRSG 453       : NRSG 331 and NRSG 332 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Must seek permission from faculty. For trad BSN seniors only. Student cannot self-register. Registration will be processed by the Office of Education staff. Permission of the department required.
NRSG 497R      : Student cannot self-register. The Office of Education will process the registration. Permission of the department required.
NRSG_OX 201    : Students must contact Advising Support to request permission numbers to enroll in this course. Permission of the department required.
NRSG_OX 202    : Contact Advising Support to receive registration assistance. (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Permission of the department required.
OAM 450        : (FIN 320 or FIN_OX 320) and OAM 331 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program. Permission of the department required.
OAM 497        : This section is reserved for students in the BBA program. To promote equity in an industry that touches the lives of millions of families around the world, it is critical that coffee growers are able to develop and capitalize on their own farm stories. This directed study course focuses on understanding the farm stories told by coffee growers to enhance their ability to participate effectively in specialty coffee markets. Students will meet weekly to learn about specialty coffee and collectively support coffee growers from Guatemala and Honduras. In the first four meetings, students will read about and discuss issues related to specialty coffee and storytelling. Then, students will be introduced to participating coffee growers. During each 3-Day Storytelling Workshop, students will work with growers to cultivate a deeper appreciation for how effective farm stories can enhance economic opportunities. In the post-workshop meetings, students will continue to work with their assigned growers to complete, review, and refine their stores. Completed stories will be posted on a dedicated website. Permission of the department required.
ENVS_OX 232E   : Must enroll in ENVS_OX 232E lab
ENVS_OX 244E   : Instructor permission required to enroll Global Learning course: additional fee required; financial aid available. Experiential learning credit is earned through participation in a 7-14 day travel component and its assignments, alongside regular on-campus coursework and class meetings. Orientations and activities related to the global learning program are required outside of class meeting time and administered through Canvas. Admission to course requires separate application process; the global learning program provides more information about the travel component, itinerary, physical activity levels, and more. Students offered enrollment will receive a permission number and additional instructions. Permission of the department required.
FILM 207       : FILM 107 or FILM_OX 107 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. There is a $120 Equipment Fee for this class. This grants access to equipment rentals for assignments.
FILM 208       : FILM 107 or FILM_OX 107 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. $125 course fee for access to equipment room
FILM 211       : FILM 107 or ARTVIS 107 or FILM_OX 107 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
FILM 214       : (Same as WGS 214 1) MCP Elective Black girlhood exists. The popularity of black girl magic the consumption of black girl/woman/femme culture and style, and the growing number of Black girlhood narratives affirms the need to view Black girlhood. This course will pair a wide range of film, social media, and television that mis/represent Black girls/femmes, along with the theoretical works that examines the complexities and intersections of race, personhood, sexuality, and authority, Employing critical race theory, as well as the critical lens of media studies, there will be an exploration of platform analysis (social media, podcast, tv and film) to genre studies (drama, comedy, sci-fi, to critical theory (queer, pedagogy, feminisms/womanisms) in order to historicize Black girlhood. The course culminates in a creative media project. Experience in filmmaking and mediamaking not required.
FILM 255       : (FILM 101 or FILM_OX 101) and (FILM 107 or FILM_OX 107) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. There is a $120 Equipment Fee for this class. This grants access to equipment rentals for assignments.
FILM 292R      : FILM 101 or FILM_OX 101 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This course introduces students to one of the most important and prolific film genres in the history of American cinema, a genre that, for some, characterizes the very essence of American film. In addition to offering an overview of the Western's development from the silent era to the approximate present, the course will explore its historical, artistic, and literary precursors, as well as the genre's central themes, conventions, myths, and iconographies. In doing so, we will collectively reexamine the Western's principal filmmakers and main players, along with its ideologies and representations, not least the question of genre itself.
FILM 326       : FILM 376 or THEA 221 or THEA 222 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as THEA 326 1) This course is instructor permission-only. Please reach out to the instructor directly & CC Theater Studies' Program Coordinator, Nicole Hart (nahart@emory.edu), for enrollment permission. Permission of the department required.
FILM 403       : FILM 301 or FILM 301W or FILM 302 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
FILM 404       : FILM 301 or FILM 301W or FILM 302 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. MCP Elective
FILM_OX 225    : PSYC 110 or PSYC_OX 110 or PSYC 111 or PSYC_OX 111 or FILM 101 or FILM_OX 101 or FILM 102 or FILM_OX 102 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This is a hybrid class (some in person, some online). This class is cross-listed with PSYC_OX 225. Instructor will share schedule of in-person meetings.
FILM_OX 278W   : FILM_OX 101 or FILM 107 or ARTVIS 107 or FILM_OX 107 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
FIN 399R       : This section is reserved for students in the BBA program. This course will explore the political issues and fundamental business models used by different industry participants - including government agencies, insurers, providers, pharmaceutical companies, device makers, and post-acute care providers. This course introduces the framework of a value-based health care delivery system with the goal of maximizing value for patients. This course is intended to stimulate thinking about how the various players in the US healthcare system must change their strategies, operations, and measurement of health care outcomes if the US is to improve the value of care provided over the current delivery system.
FIN 422        : FIN 220 or FIN 320 or SPECSTUBUS students or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
FIN 484        : FIN 424 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
FIN 485        : FIN 220 or FIN 320 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
FIN 488        : FIN 425 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
FREN 313       : FREN 310 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. FREN 313 French and Francophone Culture (Prof. Bulakites / TTh 2:30-3:45pm in person). Content: In this course, students study French and Francophone culture through the lens of France's colonial history and its relationship to colonized peoples. This course closely examines immigration, race, religion, sexuality, and gender to better understand French identity. We look at how France's immigrant and minority populations define themselves and the exclusionary aspects of the concept of "national identity." In this discussion-based course, students engage with a variety of texts including films, novels, popular press articles, comic books, and songs.
FREN 331       : FREN 310 or FREN_OX 310 and FREN 314 or FREN_OX 314 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. FREN 331: Ruins and Ruination (Prof. Bruyère / TTh 1:00-2:15pm ). Content: Ruins allow us to imagine time as a place we could inhabit. Perhaps, that is why ruination has played such an important role in shaping our sense of what history is supposed to look like but also feel like. This class proposes a guided visit through six centuries of fascination for debris, remains, rubbles, wreckage, and life in the aftermaths. Taught in French.
FREN 460W      : FREN 310, FREN 314 and two 300 level FREN courses, or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. My French 460 : Les CInémas d'Afrique de l'Ouest et d'Afrique centrale Prof. Subha Xavier Ce cours fera le tour de certaines des créations filmiques les plus importantes issues d'Afrique de l'Ouest ou d'Afrique centrale où le français est aussi parlé, et qui ont participé à l'élaboration d'une Afrique cinématographique des 20e et 21e siècles. À travers le prisme des histoires politiques et culturelles représentées dans chacun des films, ainsi que de leurs conditions de production transnationales, nous retracerons l'histoire de l'Afrique sur le grand écran telle que représentée par les Africain·es elles·eux-mêmes pour répondre à la question « Qu'est-ce que les cinémas d'Afrique » Films Paulin Vieyra, Afrique sur Seine (1955, 22 min.) Ousmane Sembène, Borom Sarret (1964, 20 min.) Ousmane Sembène, La Noire de' (1966, 65 min.) Ousmane Sembène, Mandabi (1968, 90 min.) Med Hondo, Soleil O (1967, 98 min.) Sarah Maldoror, Sambizanga (1972,102 min.) Djibril Diop Mambéty, Touki Bouki (1973, 85 min.) Souleymane Cissé, Yeelen (1987, 104 min.) Jean-Marie Teno, Afrique je te plumerai (1992, 88 min.) Anne Laure Folly, Femmes aux yeux ouverts (1994, 52 min.) Safi Faye, Mossane (1996, 105 min.) Raoul Peck, Lumumba (2000, 115 min.) Abderhaman Sissako, En attendant le bonheur (2002, 90 min.) Petna Ndaliko Katondolo, Jazz Mama (2010, 30 min.) Moussa Touré, La Pirogue (2012, 87 min.) Alain Gomis, Félicité (2016, 129 min.) Mati Diop, Atlantique (2019, 106 min.) Petna Ndaliko Katondolo, Kapita (2021, 22 min.)
FREN 495BW     : FREN 310, FREN 314 and two 300 level FREN courses, or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Permission of the department required.
FREN_OX 101    : French 101 launches students' skills in speaking, writing, reading, and understanding French; and introduces them to the cultures of France and the French-speaking world. Students with past experience in French must have received a French 101 placement recommendation or have instructor permission to enroll. Required course materials: Anderson and Dolidon, En Avant! Beginning French, most recent edition. Access code for digital edition and online workbook (Connect) is required (ISBN 978-1-26026-750-1). Assessment: Engaged participation, daily practice exercises, short writing assignments, eight chapter quizzes, five graded one-on-one conversations.
FREN_OX 102    : French 102 continues the work begun in French 101 and builds students' skills in speaking, writing, reading, and understanding French; and continues introducing them to the cultures of France and the French-speaking world. Students with past experience in French (other than French 101) must have received a French 102 placement recommendation or have instructor permission to enroll.
FREN_OX 201    : French 201 builds off of students' past experience to further mastery of the French language and to deepen their knowledge of French and Francophone cultures. A thorough review of language structures allows students to discuss more complex topics and write on more varied subjects. Prerequisites: French 102, placement recommendation, or instructor permission. Required course materials: Champeny and Mitschke, Perspectives: A Cultural Approach, first edition. Access code for digital edition and online workbook (SupersitePlus + WebSAM) is required (ISBN 978-1-54336-441-5). Assessment: Engaged participation, daily practice exercises, varied short writing assignments, six chapter quizzes, five graded one-on-one conversations.
FREN_OX 203    : French 203 builds off of French 201 (or other experience) to further students' mastery of the French language and to deepen their knowledge of French and Francophone literature, history and culture. Prerequisites: French 201, placement recommendation, or instructor permission.
FREN_OX 314    : This seminar serves as a survey of French-language cultural production across periods and genres and aims to develop interpretive and expressive skills in French through reading, discussion, and writing. Prerequisites: French 203, a '4' or '5' on the French AP exam, 300-level placement recommendation, or instructor permission. Texts to purchase: Marion Baudriller, ed., 100 poèmes classiques et contemporains (Classiques Larousse, ISBN 978-2-03-587388-0); Maryse Condé, Le cœur à rire et à pleurer (Pocket, ISBN 978-2-266-32873-9); Pierre Corneille, Horace (Classiques Larousse, ISBN 978-2-03-583915-2); Gustave Flaubert, Un cœur simple (Classiques Larousse, ISBN 978-2-03-587401-6); Laurent Fourcaut, Le commentaire composé (Armand Colin, ISBN 978-2-200-24876-5). Expectations: attentive reading, engaged participation, several short presentations and essays.
GER 101        : German 101 is the first of the two-course sequence that explores the roles and group affiliations that contribute to the identity formation of young adults in the United States and the German-speaking world. Specifically, students will examine the following three roles in 101, devoting 4-5 weeks to each: The young adult as (1) a student; (2) a hobbyist; and (3) a family member. Students will use a free, online textbook and supplemental materials to acquire the language necessary to communicate meaningfully about each topic. Through this process of examining identity formation, students in this course and in its sequel, German 102, will be introduced to the principles of speaking, writing, reading, and understanding German and to life in German-speaking countries. Texts: Free, online textbook and supplemental materials provided by instructor. Particulars: Participation (10%) Writing assignments (30%) Speaking events (30%) Preparation/homework (30%). Prerequisite: none; students who have had any prior exposure to the German language should take the department's online placement exam.
AAS 387RW      : (Same as ENGCW 385RW 1, AMST 387RW 1, HIST 387RW 1) (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Application required. If accepted, you must attend the first class session to remain enrolled. Class description and application form are available on the Creative Writing Program website: https://creativewriting.emory.edu/academics/applications.html Please email nora.lewis@emory.edu if you have any questions. Permission of the department required.
ACT 211        : ACT 200 or ACT_OX 200 or ACT 210 or ACT_OX 210 or SPECSTUBUS students or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.Students registered in ACT 200 cannot register for ACT 211.
ACT 420        : (ACT 200 or ACT_OX 200 or ACT 210 or ACT_OX 210) and (BUS 350 or BUS_OX 350 or ISOM 350) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
ACT 450        : ACT 200 or ACT_OX 200 or ACT 210 or ACT_OX 210 or ACT 512 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program.
ACT 499R       : ACT 200 or ACT_OX 200 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program. This course covers how fundamental analysis, valuation models, and portfolio optimization can be used for investing, both conceptually and practically. You will learn how to design an 'end-to-end' accounting-based investing system from concept to implementation, including state-of-the-art accounting-based valuation models, innovative methods such as machine learning and artificial intelligence, and the coding skills required to calibrate these models for forecasting and prediction.
AFS 302W       : PORT 201 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as PORT 302W 1)
AFS 366W       : This course requires ECON _OX 100 or ECON 101 or ECON_OX 101 or FIN 201 AND ECON 112 or ECON_OX112 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite. (Same as ECON 366W 1)
AFS 386        : (Same as ARTHIST 365 1) "POSTCOLONIAL ARTS OF AFRICA"Artists linked to the continent of Africa at times resist framing their work according to ethnic, national, or continental identities. Yet complex histories and understandings of identity often contribute to the content or reception of the artists' work. What expectations might visitors to American or European museums and galleries have about art by an artist specifically identified with the continent of Africa? And how might expectations change if the art were not presented with a qualifier that linked the artist or the work to the continent? Answers to such questions impact where in a museum we might find an artist's work and how a museum might present the work. The course requires no previous study of the continent of Africa or African art. We will focus on arts created for worldwide audiences by diverse artists linked to different areas of the African continent. We will look at, read about, discuss, write about, and otherwise reflect upon a range of works in order to think about what various labels reveal and conceal about art, identity, and experience in national and transnational contexts. Art History major/minors: Div III or IV
AMST 387RW     : (Same as ENGCW 385RW 1, AAS 387RW 1, HIST 387RW 1) (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Application required. If accepted, you must attend the first class session to remain enrolled. Class description and application form are available on the Creative Writing Program website: https://creativewriting.emory.edu/academics/applications.html Please email nora.lewis@emory.edu if you have any questions. Permission of the department required.
AMST 490W      : (Same as IDS 491W 1) This course is a capstone to your interdisciplinary major. There are two major goals: First, while you are working continuously on your independent senior thesis, we will use our time together to better understand interdisciplinary theory and methods in ways that will help you construct the context for your thesis. We will discuss the definitions of, and arguments surrounding, interdisciplinary scholarship, and examine how scholars weave together information from a variety of disciplines to form a coherent whole. Second, as you prepare for your post-graduation pathway, we will work on your communication skills. How will you translate your liberal arts education more broadly, and your research experience more specifically, in ways to communicate to multiple audiences for multiple purposes. As you expand into the world, how will you present yourself and your accomplishments efficiently and effectively? Across the semester, we will practice a variety of communication strategies, working together to provide guidance and constructive feedback, culminating in a draft of your senior thesis. Permission of the department required.
ANT 270        : Anthropologists work with a wide range of data to answer their questions - from ancient artifacts and ethnographic surveys to genomic data. This course provides students with the essential tools to analyze and interpret this data, empowering them to think critically about the strengths and challenges of quantitative methods in anthropology. In this hands-on course, students will dive into the core quantitative techniques used in anthropological research. With a focus on data collection, analysis, and interpretation, you'll gain practical experience applying statistical tools to real-world anthropological data. We'll go beyond theory to help you develop essential data analysis skills that you can use in any setting. The course combines lectures, interactive computer labs, and group discussions. Lectures will introduce key statistical concepts, while lab sessions provide the opportunity to put these concepts into practice using R statistical software. In group discussions, you'll collaborate with classmates to refine your analytical skills and deepen your understanding of how quantitative methods can be applied to anthropological questions. By the end of the course, you'll feel confident in using quantitative approaches to explore and answer the complex questions at the heart of anthropological research. Textbook: Andy Field, Jeremy Miles, Zoë Field (2012). Discovering Statistics using R. Sage Publications. **A student provided laptop is required for this course**
ANT 373W       : New intersections between anthropology and design studies, sound studies, performance studies, sequential art, and creative narration are yielding new modes of ethnographic investigation and ethnographic production. Simultaneously, increased calls to decolonize ethnographic research and produce work for wider publics are leading to increased experimentation with ethnographic research design and genres of research dissemination. This advanced seminar examines these developments, and provides a workshop setting for students to produce their own projects, based on original research. We will explore modes of social science and humanistic experimentation, and we will evaluate projects for their impact, ethics, and relevance. Students will examine and practice a variety of ethnographic methods for gathering data and documenting the human condition in different genres, including multimodal, multisensorial, and performance-based formats. Requirements include: Preparation for each class day, active participation in discussions, short assignments, and a team project based on original ethnographic research. Previous course in cultural anthropology or permission of instructor is required.
ANT 377W       : (Same as THEA 377W 1) Pre-requisite: Previous sociocultural anthropology course at 200 level or above is required. This is a participatory course where students learn and practice creative forms of research-based theater making. Every day will be dynamic, in action, observing/documenting/exploring the human condition and humans' relations to lived environments and the natural world. Think: multisensorial qualitative research based seminar-lab-workshop-collaboratory! Students will learn how contemporary anthropologists are engaged in a range of theater making initiatives, forging new connections and engagements across techniques, traditions, and stakeholders. We will explore -- and practice -- the crafts of transitioning between ethnographic research, scriptwriting, acting, and staging. Our questions include: How does the ethnographer vividly convey the textures of life? How is analysis integrated with description? How are embodiment, affect, and multisensorial experiences documented ethnographically -- and conveyed through performance modalities? What are the ethical and moral responsibilities and implications of this kind of work? What are its political and liberatory potentialities? Students will develop skills through fieldwork exercises, movement techniques, theater games, and physical theater methods. Over the semester, students will produce ethnographic performances based on their own original research, and will present their projects in a semester-end showcase. No prior acting or performance experience is required.
ANT 455W       : ANT 302 or PSYC 320 or BIOL 320 or PSYC 325 or BIOL 325 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. ANT 302 or PSYC 320 or BIOL 320 or PSYC 325 or BIOL 325 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. 2. For decades, studies on primate behavior have provided us with a lens to observe our ancestral past. Since the onset of the discipline, primatology has continued to evolve, with the integration of novel methodologies that have placed studies on primate behavior at the forefront of anthropology, social sciences, animal behavior, psychology, and medicine. This seminar focuses on the past, present, and future of primatology by examining the discipline's theoretical roots and the groundbreaking studies that address current problems in primate behavior and primate cognition. By reading and discussing both novel studies and "old" seminal scientific papers, this course will challenge you to understand historical perspectives, consider theoretical advances, examine methodological approaches, and critically assess the future trajectories of primatology.
ANTH_OX 332E   : (ANTH_OX 101 or ANT 101) or (ANTH_OX 205 or ANT 205 or HLTH_OX 250 or HLTH 250) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
ARAB_OX 201    : ARAB_OX 102 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
BIOL 141       : This is the first semester of a two-semester introductory biology course that is required for all Biology majors. This courses will provide a topic-driven overview of evolution, molecular and cellular biology, biochemistry, genetics, and ecology. The topics covered in LECTURE will address major issues in human biology, medicine, evolution, and ecology, with an emphasis on the basic principles and critical thinking involved in modern biological discovery. Students must also register for a BIOLOGY 141 Laboratory (BIOL 141L). In LAB, students will design and perform experiments using several important model systems. These courses include classical and molecular genetics and meet the biology premedical requirements. Some exams may be administered in the evening. AP Biology scores of 4 or 5 count for the Biology 141 LECTURE ONLY. Students with AP credit for the lecture are required to take the Lab (BIOL 141L). Co-requisite: Biology 141L.
BIOL 141L      : BIOL 141 or BIOL_OX 141 as co-requisite or CHEM 141 or CHEM_OX 141 as prerequisite or equivalent transfer credit as co-requisite or prerequisite. In lab, you will learn to: (1) design and carry out independent research projects, (2) organize and analyze simple experimental datasets, and (3) communicate findings with concise graphs, text, or presentations.
REL_OX 397RE   : ORS (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Permission of the department required.
SOC 319        : FILM 102 and (FILM 201 or FILM 202 or FILM 203 or FILM 204) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as MESAS 319 1, AFS 319 1, and FILM 319 1)
SOC 355W       : Any SOC or SOC_OX or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This course introduces students to the research methods commonly used in sociology and related fields. Topics include measurement validity and reliability; random and nonrandom sampling; experimental and quasi-experimental designs; survey research and questionnaire construction; ethnographic methods such as participant observation and intensive interviewing; evaluation research versus traditional social research; and ethical issues such as informed consent, privacy, and conflicts of interest. The course is required for sociology majors and fulfills a continuing writing requirement.
SOC 370A       : (Same as POLS 370A 1, ENVS 370A 1, CBSC 370A 1) This course examines how communities of all sizes and types (e.g., neighborhoods, cities, metropolitan regions) solve important public problems. Our focus will be on understanding how, why, and to what effects, collaborative, community-based, cross-sector (public-private-nonprofit) initiatives are crafted. The course addresses several tensions and issues that affect the practice of community building, and the processes through which community builders attempt to overcome these obstacles to foster social change comprehensively (e.g., reduce poverty and promote economic mobility) as well as within specific policy domains such as education, economic development, workforce development, health, and the environment, among others. We will explore the course material through lectures, individual and group exercises, and the examination of a variety of case studies of comprehensive community initiatives launched over the past 30 years. This course is a requirement for participation in Emory's Community Building and Social Change Fellows Program, though students do not need to commit to participating in the CBSC program to enroll. For more information on the CBSC program see https://www.emorycbsc.com/ or contact the CBSC program director, Kate Grace, at kdgrace@emory.edu. Permission of the department required.
SOC_OX 389R    : Oxford Launch: London course. Only open to students in the Oxford Launch: London program fall 2025. Topic: British Youth Culture From 1950 to the Present Permission of the department required.
SPAN 101       : CONTENT: Spanish 101 is a beginning-level integrated skills language course for students with no background in Spanish or only one year of high-school Spanish. The goals of this course include learning to use Spanish to communicate, learning of and about the tools of communication and studying Hispanic cultures to begin to understand how culture affects language use. Students participate in paired, small-group and whole-class conversation/listening activities that focus on meaningful communication and are required to do short readings and complete writing assignments. REQUIRED COURSE MATERIAL: Contraseña: Your Passport to Foundational Spanish (LingroLearning) + LinguaMeeting. Contraseña is a completely mobile and digital immersive experience, so there is no required printed textbook. Access is available for purchase directly from LingroLearning at www.lingrolearning.com PARTICULARS: Classes are conducted in Spanish to maximize exposure to the language. Evaluation is based on daily and active participation, online homework assignments, and portfolio projects. Friday classes will meet via Zoom for 50 minutes when there are no LinguaMeetings scheduled. PREREQUISITE: None, but students must take the Spanish Placement Exam and receive an Official Placement for SPAN 101 from the Department of Spanish and Portuguese. Take the online Spanish Placement Exam at http://spanport.emory.edu/home/undergraduate/placement/index.html.
SPAN 185       : (Same as PORT 185 1) (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) (Community engagement for residents of Casa Émory (Theme Housing). This course involves weekly meetings and discussion, planning of community events, and participation in other group activities. Fall Casa Émory residents are usually selected in February, but spaces sometimes become available at other times. Please contact the instructor for more information. This class meets in Casa Émory.) Permission of the department required.
SPAN 201       : CONTENT: This course, which is the first half of our intermediate sequence in Spanish and intended to be followed by Span 202, continues to develop students' communicative skills in Spanish and is designed for students who have fewer than four years formal experience studying Spanish and/ or who do not identify as heritage or native speakers of Spanish. While reviewing and acquiring new vocabulary, grammar, and pronunciation are central, learning about Hispanic/ Latino cultures is an integral part of the course as we will discuss our personal experiences and values, along with differences and changes among Spanish-speaking communities throughout the world. To this end, Span 201 aims to help students - continue to learn to use Spanish to communicate via active (speaking and writing) and passive modes (listening and reading); - further develop their knowledge of and about the tools of communication: basic linguistic units (words, idioms, conjugations, sounds) and grammar (rules which permit you to combine the units meaningfully); - explore, appreciate, and reflect upon a variety of Hispanic/ Latin/ Latinx cultures to critically discuss, compare, and analyze cultural productions. REQUIRED PROGRAM: Contraseña: Your Passport to Foundational Spanish (LingroLearning), a completely mobile and digital immersive experience. There is no required printed textbook. Purchase access to Contraseña directly from LingroLearning. PARTICULARS: Classes are conducted in Spanish, and daily attendance and active engagement are expected. EVALUATION is based on active participation and timely completion of homework, end-of-unit cumulative activities or quizzes, end-of-unit projects, and bi-weekly online meetings with coaches who are native speakers of Spanish. There is no final exam in SPAN 201. PREREQUISITES: SPAN 102, SPAN 111 or an Official Placement for SPAN 201 from the Department of Spanish and Portuguese. If you haven't done so already, be sure to take the required online Spanish Placement exam at http://spanport.emory.edu/home/undergraduate/placement/exam.html well before fall semester starts.
SPAN 281       : CONTENT: Discussion of current events in the Spanish-speaking world with emphasis on listening comprehension and oral expression. PARTICULARS: Oriented toward Spanish, SpanPort, and SpanLing majors and minors. Does not fill HAL/IC or other general education requirements. PREREQUISITE: SPAN 212 or placement.
SPAN 305       : DESCRIPTION: This course is designed specifically for heritage speakers: students who already speak Spanish and come from a Spanish-speaking family (typically their parents or grandparents speak this language); they have however never been schooled in Spanish or have received limited education in Spanish. The course introduces students to the study of the Spanish language and cultures in an academic context, and it is divided in three parts: 1) a sociohistorical background on the presence of the Spanish language in the United States, 2) a study on language variation and language ideologies, with a specific focus on the dialectal characteristics of US Spanish and how they differ and connect to other Spanish dialects, 3) a methodology for the critical analysis of cultural production in Spanish, such as films, literary works, music, etc. EVALUATION: Evaluation will be based on class participation, daily assignments, one exam, one oral presentation and three essays. PRE-REQUISITES: Heritage speakers of Spanish who have an official placement for foundational courses, or have completed Span 212, or with permission from instructor.
SPAN 311       : CONTENT: Storytelling is universal; narratives are often thought of strictly as literature or art, but narrative is in fact something we engage in on a regular basis in all spheres of daily life. At the same time, narratives are situated in specific cultural contexts. This course will highlight Spanish-language literature and other forms of storytelling (film, visual and digital texts, journalism) from Spain, Latin America, and the U.S. that are expressions of citizen protest, analyzing how narrative genres and strategies are used to communicate these texts' messages to their audiences. Course texts are drawn from protests associated with environmental activism, indigenous movements, student movements, feminism and gender protests, critiques of economic neoliberalism, pro-democracy movements and defense of human rights. SPAN 311 is one of the foundational courses for the Spanish major and minor. PREREQUISITE: Spanish 212 or an official Spanish placement for a Foundational Course level (Span 300-318). Students wishing to enroll without this prerequisite should consult the instructor. Take the online Spanish Placement Exam at http://spanport.emory.edu/home/undergraduate/placement/index.html
SPAN 409       : (Same as LACS 409 1, LING 409 1, HLTH 469 1) This course examines how particular narratives about the body, health, and wellbeing are constructed and circulated in Latin America. Drawing on a number of classic and contemporary texts, we consider both the specificity of local medical narratives and the processes, which increasingly link these systems of knowledge and practice. The course queries how presupposed notions of language, communication, narrative, media, and the like provide implicit foundations for producing and naturalizing notions of health, disease, medicine, and the body and their associated practices and materialities. Topics covered include narrative production; local theories of disease causation and healing efficacy; narratives of embodiment; medicalization; structural violence; the meanings and effects of new medical technologies; and global health.) Texts: Provided by instructor. Prerequisites: At least one foundational course (SPAN 300- 318) or permission from instructor
SPAN 423       : Content: Since the Enlightenment, the city has occupied a central position in Western culture, though the experience of urban life has changed with the evolution of the American and European city from modernity (the industrial city) to postmodernity (the global informational city). This course focuses on ways in which writers and artists express conflicting reactions to the city as a seductive and/or dangerous place to live, work and play, a place where people may interact via the shared culture of neighborhood communities or remain isolated by spatial segregation and the mobile nature of contemporary society. Centering on representations of Madrid, Barcelona, and New York sites of exchange and circulation among Spaniards, Latin Americans, and Latinxs we will ask: how are real cities imagined or remembered by those who live, visit, or immigrate there? How does the city map performances of social class, gender/sexuality, and ethnicity? Readings will draw from a variety of genres: memoirs, short stories, essays, poetry, film, theater, and websites. Texts: Sample texts/films and authors may include stories by Leopoldo Alas, Benito Pérez Galdós, Emilia Pardo Bazán, José Martí (Escenas neoyorquinas), Federico García Lorca (Poeta en Nueva York), Care Santos (Okupada), Pedro Pietri (Puerto Rican Obituary), Fernando Colomo (La línea del cielo), Pedro Almodóvar (Qué he hecho yo para merecer esto?), Quiara Alegría Hudes and Lin-Manuel Miranda (In the Heights), etc. Prerequisite: At least one 300-level foundational course for the Spanish Major or Minor OR one 400-level elective. Students wishing to enroll without these prerequisites should consult with the instructor, as there may be exceptions.
SPAN_OX 102    : SPAN_OX 101 as prerequiste or SPAN_OX 102 placement required to take this course.
SPAN_OX 111    : Placement exam required
SPAN_OX 385R   : Placement exam required This course offers an in-depth analysis of short stories in Latin America from the Romantic period until the present day. You will learn about specific Latin American authors, literary trends, and devices and how to connect them with different historical contexts.
THEA 223       : Voice and Diction will provide actors with various tools and techniques required to speak on stage with supported projection, diction, and endurance. We will explore breath support, articulation, range, and text analysis all while learning to stay vocally healthy. Through individual and group exercises we will examine classical texts, radio plays, and recorded narration.
THEA 224       : THEA 120 or THEA_OX 120 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
THEA 326       : FILM 376 or THEA 221 or THEA 222 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as FILM 326 1) This course is instructor permission-only. Please reach out to the instructor directly & CC Theater Studies' Program Coordinator, Nicole Hart (nahart@emory.edu), for enrollment permission. Permission of the department required.
THEA 372RW     : (Same as ENGCW 372RW 1) (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) Application required. If accepted, you must attend the first class session to remain enrolled. Class description and application form are available on the Creative Writing Program website: https://creativewriting.emory.edu/academics/applications.html Please email nora.lewis@emory.edu if you have any questions. Permission of the department required.
THEA 377W      : (Same as ANT 377W 1) Pre-requisite: Previous sociocultural anthropology course at 200 level or above is required. This is a participatory course where students learn and practice creative forms of research-based theater making. Every day will be dynamic, in action, observing/documenting/exploring the human condition and humans' relations to lived environments and the natural world. Think: multisensorial qualitative research based seminar-lab-workshop-collaboratory! Students will learn how contemporary anthropologists are engaged in a range of theater making initiatives, forging new connections and engagements across techniques, traditions, and stakeholders. We will explore -- and practice -- the crafts of transitioning between ethnographic research, scriptwriting, acting, and staging. Our questions include: How does the ethnographer vividly convey the textures of life? How is analysis integrated with description? How are embodiment, affect, and multisensorial experiences documented ethnographically -- and conveyed through performance modalities? What are the ethical and moral responsibilities and implications of this kind of work? What are its political and liberatory potentialities? Students will develop skills through fieldwork exercises, movement techniques, theater games, and physical theater methods. Over the semester, students will produce ethnographic performances based on their own original research, and will present their projects in a semester-end showcase. No prior acting or performance experience is required.
THEA 397R      : This is a permission only course. Permission of the department required.
THEA 410W      : (THEA 130 or THEA_OX 130) and THEA 210W and (THEA 215 or THEA_OX 215) and (THEA 216 or THEA_OX 216) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This course, the Theater Studies senior seminar, is designed for Theater majors in their senior year; students in other majors welcome by permission of instructor. Taught in fall semesters only. For inquiries, please contact Theater Studies' Program Coordinator, Nicole Hart (nahart@emory.edu).
THEA 429W      : (Same as DANC 429W 1) (Permission Required Prior to Enrollment) This course is open to declared dance majors and minors in their junior or senior year. Please contact Sally Radell, sradell@emory.edu for a permission number. Permission of the department required.
THEA 497R      : This is a permission-only course. Please contact Nicole Hart (nahart@emory.edu). Permission of the department required.
PE 399R        : Approval needed from the Office of Accessibility Services. Email april.flint@emory.edu for more information. Permission of the department required.
PE_OX 126      : Students are required to supply their own golf clubs. Only a pitching wedge, 7-iron, driver and putter are necessary. Please contact the instructor with any questions or for more information.
PE_OX 128      : Student required to supply own yoga mat
PHIL 404W      : Two PHIL courses or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as CPLT 489W 1) German Romanticism This course provides an overview of some of the key figures and core concerns of the movement known as German Romanticism. Part of what makes German Romanticism unique is its blending of the philosophical and the poetic/literary in its quest for a language and form adequate to, or at least resonant with, what it seeks to present: the "Absolute." In this course, we will focus on the themes of system & fragment, romantic irony, the native/foreign opposition, conceptions of the feminine, and the problem of evil, reading Schlegel, Tieck, Hölderlin, Günderrode, Novalis, and Schelling, on the one hand, each supplemented by a reading from Blanchot, De Man, Heidegger, Wolf, Lacoue-Labarthe and Nancy, and Zizek, respectively, on the other. As such, this course hopes to show the ongoing relevance of German Romanticism for contemporary thought. Assignments Participation and Attendance Online Discussion Mid-term paper Final Paper Required Texts Schlegel, Friedrich. Philosophical Fragments. Ed. and trans. Peter Firchow. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1991. Hölderlin, Friedrich. Selected Poetry. Ed. and trans. David Constantine. England: Bloodaxe Books, 1994. Günderrode, Karoline von. Poetic Fragments. Ed. and trans. Anna C. Ezekiel. Albany, NY: State University of New York Press, 2016. Novalis. Philosophical Writings. Ed. and trans. Stoljahr. Albany, NY: State University of New York Press, 1995. Schelling, Friedrich. Philosophical Investigations into the Nature of Human Freedom. Ed. and trans. Jeff Love and Johannes Schmidt. Albany, NY: State University of New York Press, 2005. Note: additional texts provided electronically on course reserves.
PHIL 406W      : Two PHIL courses or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. "The Technological World": In this class, we will examine a variety of philosophical accounts of technology, focusing on ontological questions about the nature of technology, information, and machine intelligence, and how technology reshapes how we understand the human being and its relation to the world. In the first section, we will read general accounts of technological experience and technological objects by Martin Heidegger, Gilbert Simondon, and Yuk Hui. In the second, we will turn to the question of human-machine interaction and symbiosis in Plato, Ernst Kapp, Ernst Jünger, and Donna Haraway. In the third section, we will look at the emergence of cybernetics and the philosophy of information in N. Katherine Hayle, Norbet Wiener, and Raymond Ruyer. Finally, we will examine classic and contemporary debates about artificial intelligence and human consciousness in Hubert Dreyfus, Jean-François Lyotard, and several contemporary authors (to be determined). Instruction will consist of a mixture of lecture, discussion, and student presentations.
PHIL 441W      : Two PHIL courses as prerequisites
PHIL 488W      : Two PHIL courses or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This course is restricted to PPL majors. Permission of the department required.
PHIL 495A      : Two PHIL courses or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Permission of the department required.
PHIL_OX 200W   : One PHIL course or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
PHYS 151       : (MATH 111 or MATH_OX 111) as prerequisites and (MATH 112 or MATH_OX 112 or MATH 112Z or MATH 210 or MATH_OX 210) as co-requisites, or equivalent transfer credit.
PHYS 212       : (PHYS 151 or PHYS_OX 151) or [(PHYS 141 or PHYS_OX 141) and (MATH 112 or MATH 112Z or MATH_OX 112 or MATH_OX 112Z0] or [(PHYS 141 or PHYS_OX 141) and MATH 116)] or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as BIOL 212 LAB1)
PHYS 220       : (PHYS 142 or PHYS_OX 142 or PHYS 152 or PHYS_OX 152) as prerequisite and (MATH 211 or MATH_OX 211) as co-requisite or equivalent transfer credit.
PHYS 234       : This course requires PHYS 142/PHYS_OX 142 OR PHYS 152/PHYS_OX152 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites
PHYS 253       : This course requires PHYS 142 OR PHYS_OX142 OR PHYS 152 OR PHYS_OX152 AND MATH 112, MATH 112Z, OR MATH_OX112 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
PHYS 361       : (PHYS 142 or PHYS_OX 142 or PHYS 152 or PHYS_OX 152) as prerequisite and (PHYS 220 or MATH 212 or MATH_OX 212) as co-requisite or equivalent transfer credit.
PHYS 421       : PHYS 220 and (PHYS 253 or PHYS_OX 253) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
PHYS 436       : (PHYS 212 or PHYS_OX 212) and (PHYS 220 or PHYS_OX 220) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites.
PHYS 458       : (PHYS 253 or PHYS_OX 253) and (MATH 211 or MATH_OX 211) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites.
PHYS_OX 141    : This mandates Math_OX 111 or Math_OX 110 as prerequisites. Must also register for the Monday Physics 141 lab. Students that have not completed the MATH_OX 111 prerequisite can email Dr. Segre (Phil.segre@emory.edu) for permission to join the class.
PHYS_OX 151    : Math 112_OX as corequisite Must enroll in PHYS_OX 151 lab
PHYS_OX 152    : This requisite mandates Phys_OX 151 as prerequisite. Must also enroll in the Physics 152 Tuesday 2:30PM lab section
PHYS_OX 212    : (MATH_OX 112 or MATH_OX 112Z) and (PHYS_OX 141 or PHYS_OX 151) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Cross-listed with BIOL_OX 212. Prerequisites: PHYS_OX 141 or 151 and Math_Ox 112 or equivalent transfer credit. Must enroll in Phys_OX 212 lab
POLS 227       : ENVS 120 or ENVS 130 or ENVS 131 or ENVS_OX 131 or ENVS 140 or POLS 111 or POLS_OX 111 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as ENVS 227 1)
POLS 313W      : POLS 208 or POLS_OX 208 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
POLS 370A      : (Same as SOC 370A 1, ENVS 370A 1, CBSC 370A 1) This course examines how communities of all sizes and types (e.g., neighborhoods, cities, metropolitan regions) solve important public problems. Our focus will be on understanding how, why, and to what effects, collaborative, community-based, cross-sector (public-private-nonprofit) initiatives are crafted. The course addresses several tensions and issues that affect the practice of community building, and the processes through which community builders attempt to overcome these obstacles to foster social change comprehensively (e.g., reduce poverty and promote economic mobility) as well as within specific policy domains such as education, economic development, workforce development, health, and the environment, among others. We will explore the course material through lectures, individual and group exercises, and the examination of a variety of case studies of comprehensive community initiatives launched over the past 30 years. This course is a requirement for participation in Emory's Community Building and Social Change Fellows Program, though students do not need to commit to participating in the CBSC program to enroll. For more information on the CBSC program see https://www.emorycbsc.com/ or contact the CBSC program director, Kate Grace, at kdgrace@emory.edu. Permission of the department required.
MATH 275       : AP Calculus BC or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Math 275 and 276 are intended for ambitious math majors, including freshmen, who are serious about math and ready for the challenging material covered. Students with the appropriate AP/IB scores may register. Students who complete the full-year sequence fulfill the major requirements for Linear Algebra (Math 221), Multivariable Calculus (Math 211,) and Foundations of Math (Math 250). If you complete Math 275 without completing Math 276, you will be given credit for Math 221. Please email scores to MATH-APSCORES@LISTSERV.CC.EMORY.EDU. Permission of the department required.
MATH 300       : (MATH 210 or MATH_OX 210 or MATH 211 or MATH_OX 211) and (MATH 221 or MATH_OX 221) and (CS 170 or CS_OX 170 or MATH 170) or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisites.
MATH 318       : [(MATH 211 or MATH_OX211) and (MATH 250 or MATH_OX 250)] or MATH 276 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
MATH 345       : This course requires MATH 212 OR MATH_OX212 AND CS 170 CS_OX170 or equivalent transfer credit as a prerequisite.
MATH 361       : MATH 210 or MATH_OX 210 or MATH 211 or PHYS 211 or MATH_OX 211 or MATH 276 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
MATH 385       : One of the key skills for anyone engaged in fields such as programming and mathematics is the ability to solve challenging problems. In most mathematics courses such as Calculus, the majority of problems follow standard solution algorithms and require a minimal set of ideas. Unfortunately, within the framework of such courses, instructors are often reluctant to challenge students with difficult problems. However, if you are interested in mathematics --- especially if you see it as your major, a potential career path, or even if you wish to participate in mathematical or coding competitions --- it is crucial to develop strong problem-solving skills. As is often the case, the only time-tested approach to mastering this skill is to tackle new mathematical problems. The goal of this course is to introduce and practice with a wide range of ideas, techniques, and methods that can aid in this endeavor. As the name of this course suggests, there will be a significant emphasis on problem-solving practice. Some of these problems will be taken directly from competitions such as PUTNAM or the International Mathematical Olympiads. Other problems might serve as lemmas in a research paper. Our aim is to `merge' these two approaches, the competitive and the exploratory. Prerequisites: Math 250 or equivalent Please email MATH-REGISTRATION@LISTSERV.CC.EMORY.EDU for permission. Permission of the department required.
MATH 485       : This course explores the foundational probabilistic principles of modern machine learning models, focusing on their theories, algorithms, and efficient implementation. We will cover a diverse range of topics, including statistical learning theory, deep generative models (variational autoencoders, generative adversarial networks, autoregressive models, normalizing flows, diffusion models), and reinforcement learning. Through this course, students will gain a comprehensive understanding of both the theoretical and practical applications of these advanced machine learning models. Prerequisite: Linear Algebra MATH 221, Mathematical Statistics 362, or permission of instructor. Recommended: MA300. Proficiency in basic PyTorch programming is recommended, and all course scripts will be provided in both PyTorch and JAX. Please email MATH-REGISTRATION@LISTSERV.CC.EMORY.EDU for permission. Permission of the department required.
MATH 497R      : Join us for a high-energy Friday jam where equations move, and ideas come alive! No dance experience necessary. Calc I background recommended. Interested students should complete this survey: https://forms.gle/DBedAUm7eSubRejW6 Permission of the department required.
MATH_OX 112    : MATH 111 or MATH_OX 111 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite.
MATH_OX 210    : MATH_OX 111 or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. Students must enroll in lecture and lab
MATH_OX 211    : Math_OX 112 or Math_OX 112Z or Math 112 as prerequisites
MATH_OX 315    : Math_OX 221 & CS_OX 170 as prerequisites Friday lab section required
MDIV 300       : (Required individual consultation with instructor and participation in individual academic enrichment plan; contact Dr. Cele Blair for additional information)
MESAS 448W     : Any JS or MESAS course or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. (Same as JS 448W 1. HIST 448W 1, and POLS 448W 1) (Ever since the emergence of the Zionist movement in the late nineteenth century, the political future of the land known as both Israel and Palestine has been the subject of fierce international debate. This seminar will examine how, exactly, this land has been discussed in international forums and in various countries, as well as how leaders of both Israelis and Palestinians have worked to chart a foreign policy for their respective peoples. Students will be given an overview of Israeli foreign policy and Palestinian attempts at global outreach since 1948 before the course moves on to explore the politics of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in various regions of the world. Course requirements include regular preparation and participation, facilitating/co-leading classroom discussions, ten brief response essays, and a final original research paper. Most research papers will focus on Palestinian or Israeli foreign relations with another country, or the role of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in another country or region's politics, either historically or today. While there is no fixed prerequisite for the course, students should either have some background in the politics and history of Israel or the Middle East or have previous studied another country or region that they plan to examine in their research) (This is not an introductory course on the conflict. Those interested in an introductory course should enroll in the larger "Israeli-Palestinian Conflict" course to be taught in Spring 2026)
MESAS_OX 210E  : Instructor permission required to enroll Global Learning course: additional fee required; financial aid available. Experiential learning credit is earned through participation in a 7-14 day travel component and its assignments, alongside regular on-campus coursework and class meetings. Orientations and activities related to the global learning program are required outside of class meeting time and administered through Canvas. Admission to course requires separate application process; the global learning program provides more information about the travel component, itinerary, physical activity levels, and more. Students offered enrollment will receive a permission number and additional instructions Permission of the department required.
MKT 499R       : MKT 340 or SPECSTUBUS students or equivalent transfer credit as prerequisite. This section is reserved for students in the BBA program. This elective course provides an experiential approach to the theory and practice of marketing and monetizing innovation. Innovation is a crucial driver of competitive advantage and growth for businesses. Despite substantial investments, often totaling billions of dollars, many innovations struggle to achieve successful commercialization. This course is tailored for students who want to learn how to successfully launch and grow new products and or services for large corporations and entrepreneurs considering new ventures. The course provides a comprehensive framework and understanding for creating a monetization and marketing strategy for innovations. At the end of the course, students will know: (1) The frameworks and best practices for monetizing innovations. (2) Marketing strategies to commercialize an innovation that can drive growth, profitability, and/or societal welfare. (3) Develop monetization models with multiple revenue streams to sustain and grow innovation in two and three-sided marketplaces. (4) Be equipped with the latest thinking to build future-looking monetization frameworks. (5) Real-world application of solutions discussed in class.
